 
•	Yes, Flatten the Curve
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: IRS Gives Details on Deferring Payments
•	U.S. News: Utah's Strongest Earthquake Since 1992 Knocks Out Power and Damages Infrastructure
•	Revenue Woes Put Tax Boost On Table
•	World News: Man Convicted of Killing Journal Reporter Awaits Appeal
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: ECB Unveils Surprise Bond-Buying Plan
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Big Push to Get Aid Out to Americans
•	The Emergency 401(k) Button
•	Rethinking the Virus Shutdown
•	Business News: As Guests Cancel, Hotels Cater to the Quarantined
•	Life & Arts -- Television Review: 'Spy Wars': Espionage In the Spotlight
•	MANSION --- Jumbo Jungle: Prepping for Your Refi --- Rates are near historic lows. But before you rush to refinance your home, make sure you...
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: ECB Chief, Germany Clash on Aid
•	MANSION --- Private Properties: The Bomb-Proof Estate That Hosted a Prince
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Beijing Now Praises Doctor --- China tries to assuage public anger over death of physician who had raised virus...
•	U.S. News: Fed Likely to Buy Even More Bonds
•	U.S. News: Jobless Claims Soar in Harbinger of Upheaval
•	World News: World Watch
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: BOE Cuts Key Rate, Plans to Buy Bonds
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Brazil Shuts Borders as Region Tries to Stem Outbreak
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Brazil Shuts Borders as Region Tries to Stem Outbreak
•	Ex-Google Car Project Engineer in Plea Deal
•	Coronavirus and Public Order
•	REVIEW --- The End of Globalization? Don't Count On It --- The Covid-19 pandemic might be closing borders and disrupting supply chains, but...
•	REVIEW --- Books: Craving Connection
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Tax-Filing Deadline Extended to July 15
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Britain Escalates Its Response
•	Low-Wage Workers Face Brunt of Coronavirus Crisis --- Double hit for service jobs: layoffs, plus high risk of contagion
•	Leaderless on the Economy
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Mexican Border Crossings Limited
•	U.S. News: Battered Towns Gearing Up for Flood Season
•	U.S. News: Jobless Claims Soar as Virus Shuts Businesses
•	EXCHANGE --- Regulators Cut Banks Slack on Bad Loans
•	EXCHANGE --- The Trade-Off Between Economy and Health --- This isn't the first time we've struggled to strike the balance. Lessons from past...
•	Repression in the Time of Coronavirus
•	The Republic Of Samsung
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Germany Outlines Emergency Budget
•	Virus Remakes Economic Policy --- Crisis creates consensus favoring bold fiscal moves
•	U.S. Prosecutors Step Up Pressure on Maduro Regime
•	U.S. News: Inmates Freed in Bid to Curb the Outbreak
•	Tobacco's Resilience Is a Temptation
•	Marines Will Retool, With an Eye to China
•	On Business: Boardrooms Could Use A Few More Insiders
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Millions of Jobs at Risk In Downturn
•	Risk, Uncertainty and Coronavirus
•	Life & Arts: Emily St. John Mandel Takes On a Madoff-Like Ponzi Scheme
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Trump Sparks Run on Two Drugs
•	U.S. News: Nashville Faces a One-Two Punch --- Businesses that just reopened after this month's tornado are forced to close again
•	China Is a Bad Coronavirus Role Model
•	Serious Crime Falls, With the Exception of Auto Theft
•	Will Coronavirus Kill Populism?
•	World News: U.S. Launches Bid to Save Afghanistan Deal
•	Tax Would Hit Brooklyn Middle Class Hardest
•	Coronavirus Threatens America's Nonprofits
•	U.S. News: Limit on Insanity Defense Allowed
•	U.S. News: PG&E To Plead Guilty in 2018 Fire
•	Life & Arts: Hip-Hop in the Jazz Club
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: India Steps Up Lockdown to Slow Spread
•	Bond Downgrades Begin Amid Economy's Freeze
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Coronavirus Strikes at the Italian Family --- Tradition puts older generations at greater risk; 6,820 have died...
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Workers, Businesses to Soon Feel Economic Pinch
•	Contagion Spreads at Rikers Island Jail --- Officials urge release of at-risk inmates, as dozens of staff and prisoners are infected
•	U.S. News: States Scramble to Meet Record Unemployment Claims
•	Potential $15 Billion Revenue Hit in N.Y.
•	Judge Backs Regulator On Coins
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Global AIDS Warrior on the Front Lines --- Deborah Birx is a central player in the Trump administration's fight...
•	Mayor Tightens Budget, as Finances Squeezed
•	Banks Can Do More, But Let's Be Careful
•	U.S. News: Outbreak Causes Delays on Death Row
•	World News: Saudis Indicted in Killing
•	Police Enforce Virus Restrictions
•	Banking & Finance: Bank Stress Tests Pale Next to the Pandemic's Wallop
•	Next in Line Are Poor, Unprepared Nations
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Europe Splits Over Proposed New Debt to Fight Virus
•	Rule Gives Banks Headache --- Lenders are supposed to write down loans as soon as risk outlook changes
•	Indicting the Caracas Mob
•	Washington's Trillions Can't Stop Job Loss
•	Working After the Coronavirus
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Singapore, Among First to Be Hit, Girds for Recession
•	Business News: Lodging Giant Oyo Unwinds Revenue Promise to Hotels
•	U.S. News: G-20 Vows To Contain Fallout
•	U.S. News: Fed Chief Says U.S. Could Be in Recession
•	Retirement Report: IRA Strategy Takes Advantage of Market Fall
•	Navigating the Coronavirus (A Special Report) --- Clarifying the Tax Deadline
•	Retirement Plans Revisited In Senate Stimulus Package
•	Jobless Claims Surge As Contagion Spreads
•	U.S. Cases, Jobless Claims Soar --- Number of infections across country pass China's count; New York remains epicenter
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Crisis Widens Rift Between U.S. and China --- Finger-pointing makes a joint effort to fight outbreak doubtful...
•	U.S. Cases, Jobless Claims Soar --- Historic run of growth abruptly comes to a close as unemployment filings surge to record
•	World News: Maduro Faces Drug Charges in The U.S.
•	U.S. News: New Law Would Steady, Not Restore, Economy
•	World News: Iraq Militants Try Stealth Tactics
•	China Is Looking Like a Haven --- Beijing slowed spread of virus and started stimulus but economic damage is uncertain and secondary...
•	REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: Local Leaders Showing The Way Forward
•	U.S. News: Police Practices Are Changing As Pandemic Grips the Country
•	REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: Never Taking Travel For Granted Again --- Crossing the globe had never been easier, until the coronavirus...
•	Corrections & Amplifications
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: OECD Warns on Growth Outlook
•	EXCHANGE --- Banks Get a Break on Bad-Loan Accounting
•	REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: A Moment to Renew American Statesmanship --- The global challenges ahead demand a return to character, vision...




Wonder Land
Yes, Flatten the Curve

By Daniel Henninger 
897 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A17
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Out of every major crisis comes a saying. After the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 -- now 9/11 -- it was "This changes everything." During World War II the British said, "Keep Calm and Carry On" -- good advice then and now. For the coronavirus pandemic of 2020, it looks like America's version will be "Flatten the curve."

Given what we're up against, "flatten the curve" sounds like a useful rule of thumb -- not only for the health-care system but for the economy, politics and even our social and psychological well-being.

It is appropriate that in an era dominated by technology, with much of life ordered by abstruse code running in the background, the crisis of our era should be defined by the arcane world of statistical epidemiology. Thus, flatten the curve: Rather than endure a crushing, immediate spike of Covid-19 cases, take extraordinary measures, such as social distancing across entire cities, to turn the crisis into a problem that allows mere mortals to cope.

Flattening the curve is not a solution. The coronavirus itself is what needs a solution, such as a vaccine or antiviral therapies. The implicit idea inside "flattening the curve" is that the virus's spread will impose significant, immediate costs across society, and dealing with that also requires a strategy.

The epidemiologists' strategy of social distancing is derived from measures taken during the 1918 flu epidemic, which only epidemiological historians remember. For the rest of us who still have historical memory (nonexistent on Florida's spring-break beaches), the more useful, imperfect analogy is the sacrifices and hard choices of World War II.

The U.S. economy did not "shut down" then. But it was a crisis. Millions of young men -- sons and fathers -- went to Europe or the Pacific theater for four years, leaving women and older men to adapt. Which they did.

The subject has been understandably raised now whether the economic cost this time, or sacrifice, of business and school closures is worth the goal of flattening the curve of pressure on the U.S. hospital system, or for those likely to contract the virus and be killed or damaged by it.

This reminds me of the familiar debate, or dilemma, over the fact that most of the U.S. health-care system's spending, particularly for Medicare, is on people in the "final years" of life. As a baseline in any of these discussions, I don't like the idea of messing with the instinct of doctors and nurses, dating to Hippocrates, to save lives. Revise that instinct downward, and we're undone.

Triage is obviously a legitimate concept in crises. But if we demote the medical profession's instinct to save, for example by accepting X number of deaths while the rest of the population self-immunizes as it goes about its daily routines, we're on a slippery slope. Legalizing euthanasia has already become more socially internalized than it should be.

While the medical troops fight the virus in the trenches, the rest of us need to flatten the coping curves inside our own responsibilities. The politicians always say Americans are up to the task of this or that challenge, but here optimism falters.

How long and to what degree social distancing in the U.S. should continue -- two weeks, eight weeks, six months -- is a subject that deserves analysis at least equal to what medical science is bringing to bear on the virus. So far, we have mostly the madness of crowds.

The financial markets are in an unrestrained and undisciplined panic. Whenever this happens, whether in 1929 or 2008, an overreaction of economically damaging regulation follows. If that post-panic panic occurs this time, it will turn the sacrifices everyone made fighting the virus into a long-term economic decline. The goal should be to create incentives for the economy to turn upward, not drive it down further with new burdens.

Again, it's hard to be optimistic. Even as medical professionals in hazmat suits focus on mitigating infection, Washington addresses financial panic with its own panic. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, in concert with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, wants to throw a trillion dollars into the country. Meanwhile local officials in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco are talking about releasing prisoners. And this even as an estimated 200,000 mom-and-pop stores in New York have voluntarily closed. Who's going to release them?

Here's a recovery idea Bernie Sanders won't like, but what Bernie represents is looking pretty yesterday by now. Before this crisis, the real economy and the people who do real work were strong. When it's over, every level of government -- federal, state and local -- should declare a two-year holiday from regulatory costs, such as the minimum wage. Ask any big-city shopkeeper or business owner if that relief wouldn't help them hire back staff and turn the curve up quickly. Ask the laid-off workers if they'd take that deal.

The heroes of 9/11 were cops and firemen. The heroes of the pandemic of 2020 will be hospital workers. Miracles aren't much in fashion, but if politicians took real risks to free the economy after the crisis, someone might even call them heroes.

---

Write henninger@wsj.com.

Document J000000020200319eg3j0002z





The Coronavirus Pandemic: IRS Gives Details on Deferring Payments

By Richard Rubin 
277 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The Internal Revenue Service began providing details for taxpayers to defer their April 15 payments to July 15, offering relief to people who owe income taxes for 2019 or estimated income taxes for the first quarter of 2020.

The official notice follows President Trump's national-emergency declaration over the coronavirus outbreak and invokes powers usually used locally after natural disasters. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the move would delay about $300 billion in payments. The new IRS rules waive interest and penalties that normally would apply.

However, the IRS isn't changing the requirement that people file a tax return or seek a six-month extension by April 15. And the rules don't apply to other taxes, such as estate taxes, excise taxes and payroll taxes that aren't handled as part of self-employment income on individual tax returns.

That approach -- which will still require taxpayers to file something by April 15 -- was already frustrating tax preparers, who are preparing for a frantic month and calling on the government to delay the deadline altogether.

"That's a tremendous waste of time to do that," said Bob Caplan of Caplan & Wong CPAs LLP in San Mateo, Calif.

The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants called on the Treasury Department to go further. The group's president and CEO, Barry Melancon, said he understands the government's interest in making sure people get refunds they are owed, but said it was impossible for tax preparers to do their job now.

IRS officials haven't explained why they didn't move the filing deadline too.

Document J000000020200319eg3j0005q





U.S. News: Utah's Strongest Earthquake Since 1992 Knocks Out Power and Damages Infrastructure

By Ian Lovett 
319 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

An earthquake shook Utah awake Wednesday morning, knocking out power and damaging infrastructure while the state was already hunkered down to slow the spread of coronavirus.

The 5.7-magnitude temblor, the largest in Utah since 1992, struck about 10 miles west of downtown Salt Lake City just after 7 a.m. More than a dozen aftershocks followed the quake.

Salt Lake City International Airport, the state's main hub of air travel, was closed Wednesday morning. The FAA air-control tower was evacuated, as were all terminals. The main damage was a broken water pipe, a spokeswoman said, and airport officials were getting it operational again by the afternoon.

Tens of thousands of people in the Salt Lake Valley lost power Wednesday morning, according to Rocky Mountain Power.

"We currently are assessing damages and will restore power as soon as possible," the company said on Twitter.

On social media, residents posted photos and videos of their homes shaking and items falling from shelves. The Salt Lake Temple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, an icon of the city's downtown, sustained minor damage, according to church officials.

The earthquake came just as the state was stepping up its efforts to combat the spread of coronavirus. Utah's first community-spread case of the virus was confirmed last weekend.

All bars and restaurants were ordered to close, except for takeout and delivery, at midnight on Tuesday.

Following the earthquake, Gov. Gary Herbert urged residents to do what public officials had already been telling them to do in response to the spread of coronavirus: Stay home.

"Please stay away from the downtown area while crews assess damage," Mr. Herbert wrote on Twitter. "Unless you work in public safety, or are an essential employee, remain at home or telework."

Document J000000020200319eg3j0005w





Revenue Woes Put Tax Boost On Table

By Jimmy Vielkind 
625 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A12A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The new coronavirus has upended New York state's normal methods of making laws and passing the state budget, and it has given new life to the argument that the state needs to raise taxes.

Unions and progressive groups already had been calling for higher taxes on the wealthy to help cover the state's existing $6.1 billion budget deficit and raise more funds for housing, school aid and health care.

State Sen. Liz Krueger, a Democrat from Manhattan who chairs the chamber's finance committee, said in an interview that the potential for higher unemployment helped make the case.

"I don't know that it was on everybody's table three weeks ago, but I think it's on everybody's table to think about now," Ms. Krueger said.

State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said Tuesday the amount of projected revenue could fall short of lawmakers' expectations by as much as $7 billion. In January, Gov. Andrew Cuomo proposed a $178 billion budget.

Republican lawmakers said they oppose tax increases, especially as businesses suffer losses from the coronavirus outbreak. Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said Wednesday: "You have businesses closing, you have people out of work. I don't think now is the time to tell people we're going to raise your taxes."

Democrats control both the state Assembly and Senate. On Wednesday, leaders in both chambers said they were looking to the federal government for relief but that tax increases were possible.

"We've always been willing to consider revenue," said Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Democrat from Yonkers. "It certainly is not my first priority, but we want to consider revenues wherever we can. But our circumstance at this point is becoming certainly bigger than us, so our national partners are going to be more important than ever."

The state faces a March 31 deadline to adopt a budget. Normally each legislative house would develop and pass its own spending plan, but this year that procedure is being scrapped.

The state Assembly and Senate passed a bill Wednesday that guaranteed 14 days of paid leave to workers required to quarantine because of the outbreak. Mr. Cuomo said he would sign the measure.

The bill had bipartisan support, even though most lawmakers weren't present in the chamber to cast their ballots. Just five of the 63 senators were on the floor; Republican and Democratic leaders agreed to let members record their votes with the Senate clerk from their offices. The 150 members of the state Assembly were only allowed on the floor in groups of 12.

The Capitol closed to visitors on Sunday. Hallways that normally teem with lobbyists were empty on Wednesday.

Ms. Stewart-Cousins said she would be in Albany to negotiate details of the budget with Mr. Cuomo and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, a Democrat from the Bronx. The three met privately on Wednesday afternoon.

Ms. Stewart-Cousins said senators would disperse, but be "on standby." Mr. Heastie said he wasn't sure when members would return.

"This is uncharted territory," Mr. Heastie said.

Most of the state's deficit was caused by a $4 billion overrun in its Medicaid program, which provides health care to more than six million New Yorkers. Mr. Cuomo convened a task force to find $2.5 billion in ongoing savings within the program.

A coronavirus relief bill that passed Congress would bring more than $6 billion in additional annual Medicaid funding to New York, U.S. Sen. Chuck Schumer said this week.

But Mr. Cuomo said this week that language in the federal bill would prevent his task force from making changes, and therefore "negates my ability to do a budget."

Document J000000020200319eg3j00063





World News: Man Convicted of Killing Journal Reporter Awaits Appeal

By Saeed Shah 
702 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A12
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

KARACHI, Pakistan -- A Pakistani court is weighing the appeal of a British national convicted and sentenced to death nearly 18 years ago in the murder of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, lawyers involved in the proceedings said.

The tribunal in Karachi heard arguments earlier this month in the case of Omar Saeed Sheikh, who received death sentences in 2002 for convictions on three separate crimes -- kidnapping for ransom, murder and terrorism. It could issue a ruling in the next few weeks, the lawyers said. Any decision could then be appealed to Pakistan's Supreme Court.

Mr. Pearl, the Journal's South Asia bureau chief, was killed while reporting on Islamic extremist circles in Pakistan in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S. and the subsequent U.S. invasion of Afghanistan in pursuit of Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda network. He was abducted on Jan. 23, 2002, and beheaded days later.

Mr. Sheikh, who had communicated with Mr. Pearl for a couple of weeks before his abduction, was arrested and found guilty by a Pakistanianti terrorism court.

Three alleged accomplices were given life sentences. Their appeals were also heard this month.

In the hearing in March, Mr. Sheikh and his accused accomplices sought to have the convictions overturned based on flaws their lawyers say exist with the evidence, said Rai Bashir Ahmed, a lawyer for one of the accused in the recent proceedings and also a defense lawyer in the 2002 trial.

Prosecutors rebutted those arguments and said Mr. Sheikh's death sentences should be upheld, lawyers said. Prosecutors also argued for death sentences in the cases of the convicted accomplices.

Mr. Sheikh's lawyer, Mahmood Sheikh, declined to comment. Lawyers for the other defendants said their clients are innocent.

According to testimony in Mr. Sheikh's 2002 trial, Mr. Sheikh met Mr. Pearl and promised to introduce him to a religious leader he wanted to meet. Later, Mr. Sheikh, who used a pseudonym in his interactions with Mr. Pearl, called the journalist to Karachi to see the cleric there, according to the court's findings.

After Mr. Pearl stepped out of his taxi at a restaurant where he was told to meet, he was put into a car in which Mr. Sheikh was seated, according to the court's findings. The reporter then disappeared, according to testimony at the trial.

The court found that ransom demands were emailed by Mr. Sheikh and his accomplices, demanding better treatment for prisoners held by the U.S. at Guantanamo Bay prison camp and for Pakistan to receive some U.S. jet fighters, in return for letting Mr. Pearl go.

In July 2002, the Pakistani court convicted Mr. Sheikh of orchestrating the plot, ruling he be hanged. Soon after, Mr. Sheikh lodged his appeal.

Mr. Sheikh's parents immigrated from Pakistan to the U.K., where he largely grew up. He later returned to South Asia, where he linked up with Pakistani militant groups, according to Pakistani officials. He was jailed in India in 1994 for helping to kidnap a group of Western tourists in the Indian-controlled part of the disputed Kashmir region. He was released in 1999 by India as part of negotiations with Pakistani militants who had hijacked an Indian plane.

U.S. officials believe that Mr. Pearl's abduction drew the attention of al Qaeda's operations chief, a Pakistani, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, who was also the chief planner of the Sept. 11 attacks. Mr. Mohammed was captured in Pakistan in 2003 and transferred to Guantanamo.

There, Mr. Mohammed -- subjected more than 180 times to an interrogation technique known as "waterboarding" that human-rights groups regard as torture -- confessed in 2007 to killing Mr. Pearl, according to documents released by the U.S.

Mr. Mohammed is due to stand trial next year for his alleged involvement in the Sept. 11 attacks. He hasn't been charged with any crimes related to the killing of Mr. Pearl. Mr. Mohammed didn't figure in the arguments used in Mr. Sheikh's appeal in Karachi this month, according to lawyers in the case.

Document J000000020200319eg3j0002w





The Coronavirus Pandemic: ECB Unveils Surprise Bond-Buying Plan

By Tom Fairless, Anna Hirtenstein and Giovanni Legorano 
909 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

FRANKFURT -- The European Central Bank unveiled a new 750 billion euro ($818.7 billion) bond-buying program aimed at shielding the eurozone economy from the spreading coronavirus, casting aside longstanding taboos to send a determined signal to investors that the bank will stand behind the region's embattled governments.

The unexpected move, following days of delay and mixed messages from the ECB, underscores the high level of urgency among policy makers in Europe, which has emerged as the new center of the fast-moving global crisis.

Borrowing costs for Southern European countries have jumped in recent days, reflecting concerns that the region's governments might struggle to meet their obligations as spending demands increase. That has revived memories of the eurozone debt crisis nearly a decade ago.

While analysts cheered the ECB's move, it could raise fresh concerns in the region's largest economy, Germany, where officials have long worried about overreach by the ECB.

In a statement, the bank said it would buy 750 billion euros of public- and private-sector assets at least through the end of the year, and possibly beyond. The purchases -- dubbed the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Program -- will include Greek government debt, which was excluded under earlier ECB bond-buying programs.

The decision came during an unscheduled late-night conference call among top ECB officials, on a day when borrowing costs for governments like Italy and Spain jumped as the virus roiled and shuttered the region.

"This looks like a game-changer for the euro area economy and markets," said Frederik Ducrozet, an economist with Pictet Wealth Management in Geneva.

It means the ECB will be able to buy almost 120 billion euros a month of eurozone debt for the rest of the year -- the largest amount ever. Under the rules of the program, the ECB could focus its purchases in the short-term on Italy and other struggling governments.

"It sends a very, very strong signal to markets," said Torsten Slok, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. "This is the bazooka."

The decision marks an about-turn for the ECB, which had dragged its feet for weeks about the need for aggressive monetary stimulus, even as major central banks like the Federal Reserve announced deep interest-rate cuts and other actions to help combat the virus.

Last Thursday, ECB President Christine Lagarde stressed at a news conference that the bank was "not here to close spreads," suggesting it wouldn't intervene to narrow the difference in borrowing costs between Germany and Italy.

That comment stunned investors, and the ECB quickly sought to walk it back. The incident called into question the ECB's carefully crafted role as an effective lender of last resort to eurozone governments. The ECB is prohibited under European treaties from financing governments, but European courts have supported its right to use bond purchases to calm markets.

As Italy's sovereign debt came under pressure this week, however, the ECB intervened in the market via the nation's central bank, according to a person familiar with the matter. It also sought to redirect remarks by senior officials suggesting that the bank would take no further action.

"It has intervened in a flexible but intense way due to the volatility of markets," the person said.

The ECB declined to comment.

In a confusing twist Wednesday, Austrian central-bank Gov. Robert Holzmann suggested in an interview that investors were right in assuming that the ECB would do little more to support the economy.

He even suggested that a downturn in Europe might have a positive, cleansing effect on the economy by eliminating businesses that aren't viable. "One should be careful that only the firms capable of surviving do survive, and that others that would have failed even without a crisis don't survive," Mr. Holzmann said.

A spokesman for Mr. Holzmann declined to comment further on his remarks, which prompted a swift response from the ECB. The bank said its top officials were united in their desire to use all their tools to support the region's economy.

Still, Italy's 10-year government bond yield rose above 3% on Wednesday for the first time in more than a year, as investors worried that the ECB wouldn't step in to support Rome. The Greek equivalent traded above 4.1%, compared with less than 1% several weeks ago.

"This is the perfect storm," said James Athey, an investment manager at Aberdeen Standard Investments. "Liquidity has essentially evaporated, the BTP [Italian government bond] market has essentially broken today. There are basically no bids and a lot of sellers."

On a conference call with European Union leaders on Tuesday, Ms. Lagarde said the eurozone economy would likely contract by 1.3% this year if business shutdowns lasted for one month and shrink by around 5% if the shutdowns lasted three months, according to a person familiar with the matter. The latter would represent a fiercer downturn than the financial crisis.

In its statement late Wednesday, the ECB suggested it might alter self-imposed limits on its bond-buying program, breaking a longstanding taboo. That would potentially give the bank room to buy more than a third of the outstanding debt of governments like Italy. It could also raise legal concerns in Germany, where the ECB has faced multiple lawsuits over its bond purchases.

Document J000000020200319eg3j0006g





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Big Push to Get Aid Out to Americans

By Richard Rubin 
919 words
19 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- Getting lump-sum payments into the hands of every American could take weeks to start and months to complete as the government tries to turn its tax-collection system into a money-distribution machine.

Congress is coalescing around the idea of sending money to individuals to ease the economic disruption from the coronavirus outbreak, and the Treasury Department wants to distribute cash as fast as possible, said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.

A Treasury proposal circulated Wednesday envisions two rounds of payments, one starting April 6 and another starting May 18, with amounts varying by family size and income level. That is beyond the two-week goal Mr. Mnuchin mentioned on Tuesday.

Lawmakers have been talking about $1,000 for each person or more, and Mr. Mnuchin said the government would use Internal Revenue Service information for some people and data from electronic-payment providers for others.

Policy makers face a trade-off between speed and accuracy. The faster the Treasury Department shovels money out the door, the more likely it is that some people will get paid twice and others won't get paid at all. A slower effort could reduce errors, but people who lose jobs or have hours cut would face mounting bills in the meantime.

"A tolerance for error is kind of necessary for this situation," said Jack Smalligan, a former Office of Management and Budget official who retired in 2018.

The government last sent payments to Americans in 2008 as the economy was entering a downturn. President George W. Bush signed the law on Feb. 13, but the money didn't start going out until late April. The payments were largely complete by the summer. Then as now, the task was complicated because it occurred during the IRS's busy tax-filing season.

"People are looking at 2008 and saying, 'Wow that was slow,'" said Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman at the time. "I'm not saying this just to be defensive of what we did. It was actually pretty quick."

Then, the government paid up to $600 to each adult and $300 for every child based on formulas tied to income. Many people filed tax returns to claim the benefit, which resulted in extra work for the IRS and millions of inquiries to its call centers.

Since then, the IRS budget repeatedly has been cut in real terms. The tax agency now has about 23% fewer people than it did. The government has since largely dismantled its capacity for mass check-printing, so most payments would be made electronically, said Don Hammond, a former senior Treasury official.

This time around, Congress and the Trump administration are aiming to get the money out quickly. One way to do that would be to divide recipients into several groups for processing. "This will end up going out in waves," said Mr. Smalligan, who is now at the Urban Institute. "Is the time between those waves weeks or months?"

Depending on how the law is written, the easiest people to pay quickly include those who receive benefits from the Social Security Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs. The government already sends them money routinely, which means it has accurate bank-account information.

Next are people who file tax returns. More than 80% of taxpayers who get refunds receive them through direct deposit, so the IRS has complete bank-account information and addresses from 2018 tax returns and a partial set of 2019 information. Some of those electronic payments are set to go to tax preparers and then be distributed to individuals, said Dick Gregg, former fiscal assistant secretary at Treasury.

There are potential hitches, however. The older that information gets, the less accurate it is. Some people change bank accounts, resulting in bouncebacks. Others change addresses.

"The IRS right now is probably overwhelmed," Mr. Hammond said. "It's tax filing season. You've got still tax-law changes that are being implemented. And now you've got the effects of the virus on their workforce."

It would take the IRS time to prepare files that include names and bank account information. Once that information gets to the Bureau of the Fiscal Service, which makes payments, it would take a few days to get to people, said Mr. Gregg.

Targeting payments to some income groups would likely take more time. Another option would be to send checks to everyone and then recoup some or all from top earners when they file their 2020 tax returns. That would make the program a cash grant to middle-income households and a zero-interest loan to those at the top.

"We are trading economic output for health outcomes," Mr. Fratto said. "We have to go big first, and that's the only way it's going to work."

The hardest group to reach with money is perhaps the most vulnerable: People who don't file tax returns because their income is too low and who don't get other federal benefits. And lawmakers will have to decide if noncitizens should get money, too. That is a challenging and politically explosive question. So is the danger of fraud.

"Any time there's money involved, there's people around who look for opportunities to steal it," Mr. Gregg said. "So you just have to be aware that the faster things get done, it does increase the risk of errors or fraud."

---

Kate Davidson contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200319eg3j0005z





REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
The Emergency 401(k) Button

425 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

As the coronavirus threatens to stall the U.S. economy, a relatively easy countermeasure is to hit the emergency 401(k) button: Congress should allow people to take a certain sum, say $10,000, from their retirement accounts without facing penalties or taxes.

This is a way to tap liquidity that already exists. Among nonretired adults, 54% have some kind of defined-contribution plan, such as a 401(k) or 403(b), according to a Federal Reserve report last year. Also, 33% hold an individual retirement account. For Americans overall, it represents a huge pool of money, estimated by one survey at roughly $17 trillion.

Early withdrawals generally face automatic tax withholding. Plus there's a 10% penalty, with narrow exceptions. Congress created a new exception in December when it passed the Secure Act: Up to $5,000 can be taken out, penalty free, "in case of birth of child or adoption." In hindsight, lawmakers should have added a provision "in case of global coronavirus pandemic."

In the past, Washington has given increased withdrawal flexibility to victims of hurricanes and California's wildfires. What's needed this time is bigger, since the coronavirus pandemic is nationwide and economic idling will affect millions. But the mechanics appear relatively straightforward. Lawmakers could pass legislation saying that early distributions during a defined period won't incur the 10% penalty. Maybe they could waive the usual income tax and withholding, too.

This idea has many advantages, compared with the talk of giving every American a federal check for $1,000 -- or is it up to $2,000? It provides an option for people who need the cash, without blanketing everyone. Under Washington's current plan for a Coronavirus Basic Income, the government would take out debt to pay everyone. Further, each dollar pulled from a retirement account would cost the Treasury only a fraction of that in forgone revenue, for a multiplier effect.

Not everybody has a retirement plan, but a limited period of allowing free-and-clear withdrawals would encourage parents, brothers, uncles and so forth to act as a financial backstop to younger and less-fortunate family. That's a much healthier dynamic than simply telling Americans to sit tight, crank up "Ride of the Valkyries," and wait for the government helicopters dropping $100 bills.

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Small Business, Individuals Confront Panic" -- WSJ March 23, 2020)

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: All Those 401(k)s in the Time of Coronavirus" -- WSJ Mar. 28, 2020)

Document J000000020200320eg3k00038





REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Rethinking the Virus Shutdown

996 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Financial markets paused their slide Thursday, but no one should think this rolling economic calamity is over. If this government-ordered shutdown continues for much more than another week or two, the human cost of job losses and bankruptcies will exceed what most Americans imagine. This won't be popular to read in some quarters, but federal and state officials need to start adjusting their anti-virus strategy now to avoid an economic recession that will dwarf the harm from 2008-2009.

The vast social-distancing project of the last 10 days or so has been necessary and has done much good. Warnings about large gatherings of more than 10 people and limiting access to nursing homes will save lives. The public has received a crucial education in hygiene and disease prevention, and even young people may get the message. With any luck, this behavior change will reduce the coronavirus spread enough that our hospitals won't be overwhelmed with patients. Anthony Fauci, Scott Gottlieb and other disease experts are buying crucial time for government and private industry to marshal resources against the virus.

---

Yet the costs of this national shutdown are growing by the hour, and we don't mean federal spending. We mean a tsunami of economic destruction that will cause tens of millions to lose their jobs as commerce and production simply cease. Many large companies can withstand a few weeks without revenue but that isn't true of millions of small and mid-sized firms.

Even cash-rich businesses operate on a thin margin and can bleed through reserves in a month. First they will lay off employees and then out of necessity they will shut down. Another month like this week and the layoffs will be measured in millions of people.

The deadweight loss in production will be profound and take years to rebuild. In a normal recession the U.S. loses about 5% of national output over the course of a year or so. In this case we may lose that much, or twice as much, in a month.

Our friend Ed Hyman, the Wall Street economist, on Thursday adjusted his estimate for the second quarter to an annual rate loss in GDP of minus-20%. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin's assertion on Fox Business Thursday that the economy will power through all this is happy talk if this continues for much longer.

If GDP seems abstract, consider the human cost. Think about the entrepreneur who has invested his life in his Memphis ribs joint only to see his customers vanish in a week. Or the retail chain of 30 stores that employs hundreds but sees no sales and must shut its doors.

Or the recent graduate with $20,000 in student-loan debt -- taken on with the encouragement of politicians -- who finds herself laid off from her first job. Perhaps she can return home and live with her parents, but what if they're laid off too? How do you measure the human cost of these crushed dreams, lives upended, or mental-health damage that result from the orders of federal and state governments?

Some in the media who don't understand American business say that China managed a comparable shock to its economy and is now beginning to emerge on the other side. Why can't the U.S. do it too? This ignores that the Chinese state owns an enormous stake in that economy and chose to absorb the losses. In the U.S. those losses will be borne by private owners and workers who rely on a functioning private economy. They have no state balance sheet to fall back on.

The politicians in Washington are telling Americans, as they always do, that they are riding to the rescue by writing checks to individuals and offering loans to business. But there is no amount of money that can make up for losses of the magnitude we are facing if this extends for several more weeks. After the first $1 trillion this month, will we have to spend another $1 trillion in April, and another in June?

By the time Treasury's small-business lending program runs through the bureaucratic hoops -- complete with ordering owners that they can't lay off anyone as a price for getting the loan -- millions of businesses will be bankrupt and tens of millions will be jobless.

---

Perhaps we will be lucky, and the human and capitalist genius for innovation will produce a vaccine faster than expected -- or at least treatments that reduce Covid-19 symptoms. But barring that, our leaders and our society will very soon need to shift their virus-fighting strategy to something that is sustainable.

Dr. Fauci has explained this severe lockdown policy as lasting 15 days in its initial term. The national guidance would then be reconsidered depending on the spread of the disease. That should be the moment, if not sooner, to offer new guidance on what might be called phase two of the coronavirus pandemic campaign.

That will surely include strict measures to isolate and protect the most vulnerable -- our elderly and those with underlying medical problems. This should not become a debate over how many lives to sacrifice against how many lost jobs we can tolerate. Substantial social distancing and other measures will have to continue for some time in some form, depending on how our knowledge of the virus and its effects evolves.

But no society can safeguard public health for long at the cost of its overall economic health. Even America's resources to fight a viral plague aren't limitless -- and they will become more limited by the day as individuals lose jobs, businesses close, and American prosperity gives way to poverty. America urgently needs a pandemic strategy that is more economically and socially sustainable than the current national lockdown.

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Balancing Covid-19 With a Destructive Cure" -- WSJ Mar. 26, 2020)

Document J000000020200320eg3k00037





Business News: As Guests Cancel, Hotels Cater to the Quarantined

By Newley Purnell and Frances Yoon 
588 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

With the coronavirus pandemic pummeling global travel, some hotels are employing a new tactic to boost bookings: targeting guests who face lengthy quarantines.

The risky strategy is a reaction to the challenge that the world's hospitality companies now face, with few people traveling and few likely to do so for some time.

Hotel occupancy rates have plummeted as coronavirus infections have spread throughout the world. In Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea, where cases started climbing early in the global crisis, occupancy rates have fallen from about 70% or higher in January to as low as 20% this month, according to hotel data tracker STR. Hotels in the U.S. and Europe are now suffering a similar fate.

With few tourists visiting Hong Kong, where confirmed coronavirus cases reached 208 on Thursday, hotels are now offering special packages for people who need -- or want -- to quarantine themselves. On Thursday, a new rule took effect requiring all people arriving from abroad to be in quarantine for two weeks. Some individuals who returned to the city in recent days have also opted to self-quarantine and avoid contact with family and friends for a while.

At the Dorsett Wanchai, which describes itself as "a 4.5 star hotel," a reservations employee said the hotel was receiving dozens of inquiries a day about its 14-day quarantine package. For 9,688 Hong Kong dollars (US$1,248), or about $89 per night, guests can book a "Premier Room" with a window that can be opened to let in fresh air, an unusual feature for high-rise hotels in the semiautonomous Chinese city.

"Together we fight the pandemic," said a recent Chinese-language advertisement for the Dorsett chain that listed 14-day and 27-day package rates for rooms at nine hotels.

The Dorsett Wanchai has designated several floors for quarantined guests, the employee said. Their rooms will be cleaned once a week with disinfectant sprays, with trash bins emptied daily.

Quarantined guests also must undergo temperature checks twice a day to help determine if they might have the virus.

They can order meals from an online food delivery service, whose options include Chinese food, pizza, pasta and Indian cuisine. If they prefer to order from other food outlets, the hotel's concierge will deliver the food to the room, the employee said.

On Wednesday afternoon, three hotel employees were cleaning door handles and windows near its entrance with disinfectant spray. A sign on the check-in desk said guests could get bottles of hand sanitizer refilled.

Most hotels offering quarantine packages normally cater mostly to tour groups or budget travelers and have seen that business largely disappear, said Gloria Chang, executive director at hospitality consulting firm Horwath HTL in Hong Kong.

But some upscale hotels are also getting in on the action. At the Renaissance Hong Kong Harbour View Hotel, a staffer greeting visitors at the front desk Thursday said the hotel had recently begun offering 14-day packages for guests needing to be quarantined. Rates begin at about $160 daily before service and taxes, a discount from standard prices.

Guests must remain in their rooms but are eligible for discounts on food and laundry services.

At the Fairmont Singapore rooms are now available for two weeks for as little as $110 plus tax and service daily. All rooms have balconies. While housekeeping staff cannot enter rooms, fresh towels are left at the door.

Document J000000020200320eg3k0000h





Life & Arts -- Television Review: 'Spy Wars': Espionage In the Spotlight

By Dorothy Rabinowitz 
1,016 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A13
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Spy Wars With Damian Lewis

Begins Sunday, 8 p.m., Smithsonian Channel

In 1968, a loyal officer of the KGB is so shaken by the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia that he becomes an operative for British and American intelligence -- one, "Spy Wars" reveals (begins Sunday, 8 p.m., Smithsonian Channel), destined to be of historic importance. This is the saga of Oleg Gordievsky -- subject of the first episode of this eight-part weekly series, and a rich portrait it is. When his role of many years as a spy for the British and Americans finally becomes known to the Kremlin, quick exfiltration becomes an urgent necessity. His 1985 getaway in the trunk of a car driven by unflappable MI6 agents, who get him safely to Finland despite suspicious Russian border guards -- and the howls of their alert dogs, who quiet down when the car's driver throws them a treat -- is an escape sequence to cherish.

In 2001, Robert Hanssen -- one of the FBI's most trusted agents -- is unmasked as the mole who had, for 20 years, betrayed the identities of American assets in the Soviet Union and then Russia, thus ensuring their deaths at the hands of execution squads.

In 2010, agents of the Kremlin who had successfully passed themselves off as upstanding American citizens for 10 years are rounded up by the FBI in neighborhoods across the country.

The aforementioned are just three of the exceptionally nuanced case histories presented in "Spy Wars With Damian Lewis," a series distinguished by the eloquence with which it evokes the times in which these events took place. Watching any of the episodes in this series is like being immersed in a hefty work of fiction propelled by complex depths and sharp plot twists, not to mention suspense.

Among them is a chapter devoted to the terrorist plot, conceived in 2006, that was intended to culminate in a loss of American lives equal to that of the 9/11 attacks. The ring leader was Abdullah Ahmed Ali, resident of East London and chief strategist of the group of conspirators planning the destruction of American passenger planes flying from Heathrow to the U.S.

Ali had been given extensive training in counter-intelligence, been taught to avoid being followed and the like -- not that this was of any help to him on this mission. In London, he was successfully followed everywhere he went. For sheer drama, nothing in this history is equal to the surveillance procedure through which MI5 tracked every move made by Ali and others suspected of being his co-conspirators in a planned terror strike of some kind. Thirty agents a day were employed in tracking Ali alone.

A quick secret search of his suitcase at Heathrow had produced an early cause for suspicion -- why was his suitcase stocked with packages for the making of a sugar-based drink and a supply of AA batteries? The answer would be clear, in time. Once the British surveillance team had finished installing hidden cameras and bugs in Ali's East London flat, they had full access to every conversation held there, which is to say they learned most of what they needed to know. Among the things they discovered was that 19 plotters were to take part in the mission -- the same number that were involved in the attacks of 9/11. A fact, one commentator notes, that suggests how much the planners of this terrorist mission wanted to emulate that assault in every way possible, including, above all, its magnitude.

As British intelligence learned, the destruction was intended to be massive and terrifying, the explosives set to go off far enough away from London as to make it impossible for any of the American passenger planes not destroyed to try to make it back to Heathrow. What MI5 didn't know was the day the plot was to be enacted.

There were some complications -- the Americans, the targets of the attack, and the British had differing views as to when the plot should be foiled, the plotters arrested.

None of this mattered in the end, which saw Ali and his chief collaborator arrested and in possession of suicide videos among other pieces of incriminating evidence. A massive arrest action by quickly assembled British police teams swept up all of the other suspected terrorists.

Amid the variety of these case histories, there is the unexpected treasure. That's the story, little known, of the young Mossad agent who leads a mission into enemy territory, starting in 1981, to rescue the Jews of Ethiopia and transport them to Israel, a vividly detailed, emotion-laden account of a perilous flight to the place those rescued considered their homeland.

To the devotees of "The Americans," of course -- some of whom are still waiting to learn whether Martha ever got back from Russia -- no chapter will be as compelling as the one titled "The Spies Next Door." Here's the origin story of "The Americans" -- the real-life Russian spies who settled in affluent American communities, pretending to be born and bred U.S. citizens. The successful disguise of their identities owed much to their long years of training in a special school where they were drilled in thinking and speaking like Americans -- a place, the film informs us, where even muttering a Russian word in their sleep was cause to be dropped from training.

Here are the Murphys -- Cynthia and Richard of Montclair, N.J. -- who spent 10 years serving the Kremlin while comfortably embedded in a community that thought highly of them. Cynthia especially, who had some big job in finance, it was understood. But she was a fun person, always busy in the garden on weekends. Her husband, Richard, a stay-at-home father, was much more reclusive, a neighbor testifies. Perhaps not surprising -- Richard, it turned out, was in charge of the real family business, which was spying.

Eight chapters, in short, of enthralling power -- a tonic for dark times and every other kind.

Document J000000020200320eg3k00009





MANSION --- Jumbo Jungle: Prepping for Your Refi --- Rates are near historic lows. But before you rush to refinance your home, make sure you have these details nailed down.

By Katy McLaughlin 
1,098 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
M4
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

In these tough times, a rare silver lining has come in the form of mortgage refinancings -- an effect of the stock-market selloff and flight to safety, which has pulled interest rates lower. Refi applications were up 79% the week ended March 6 compared with the week prior, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association. Average jumbo loan rates dropped to their lowest levels since 2011, 3.58%, while average conforming loans hit 3.47%, a level not seen since December 2012, the association said.

Where rates are headed is anyone's guess because "these are unprecedented times and markets are reacting in ways nobody has ever seen," said Mat Ishbia, president of United Wholesale Mortgage in Pontiac, Mich. Though historically low 10-year Treasury notes should coincide with plunging mortgage rates, other factors, including investors pulling money out of mortgage-backed securities amid a broad asset selloff, caused rates to tick up last week; then again, the Federal Reserve's rate cut on Sunday might send things lower. Some lenders are so overwhelmed with refi requests that they are slowing the flow of business by raising rates, Mr. Ishbia said.

The dynamic situation requires that borrowers get ready to act fast to lock in rates. While some preparations -- lowering debt levels, improving credit scores and saving up cash -- require lots of planning, unexpected snafus can gum up the works at the last minute. Here's a list of the top five avoidable problems to tackle before you refi.

1. UNFREEZE CREDIT

Once a huge generator of fees for the credit bureaus, a federal law made freezes free -- both to activate and lift -- for consumers in 2018. If you took advantage of this service to protect your credit file from potential fraud, you need to now lift the freeze for the refi. Lenders pull credit files from the big bureaus -- Equifax, Experian and TransUnion -- at the beginning of the process and sometimes again at the end. Use the credit bureaus' online or automated phone systems and request that they unfreeze -- which the bureaus are required by law to do within the hour. However, sometimes consumers aren't able to lift a freeze so easily; instead, they must send a request by fax or snail mail, along with copies of a W2, driver's license or other identification to the credit bureau, said Sathi Roy, head of refinance at Better.com, an online lender. In these cases, once the credit bureaus have received the documents, they have three business days to unfreeze the credit. You can specify the window during which you want a freeze lifted, but it may be safer to permanently lift the freeze; you can refreeze the file when the loan is closed.

2. GET APPRAISAL READY

If you're planning home improvements, either get them done before your lender's appraiser comes to evaluate your home's value, or hold off on repairs until after the visit.

"The house shouldn't be under construction at all," said Donald Boucher, president of Boucher & Boucher, a residential appraisal company in Washington, D.C.

While minor repair issues -- the Honey Do list, Mr. Boucher said -- won't swing the appraised value, larger projects might. If, for instance, there is a bathroom renovation under way, the appraiser must either submit an "as is" appraisal, which reduces the home value by the amount of work left to be done, or a "subject to completion" evaluation, which requires the appraiser to return and confirm the work is done before the loan closes.

Purge clutter and spiff the home up as much as possible.

"You want people who drive up -- even an appraiser -- to say, 'oh, this is a nice house,'" Mr. Boucher said.

3. CALL YOUR ACCOUNTANT

"Self-employed people will need a year-to-date profit-and-loss statement prepared by their certified public accountant," said Alan Rosenbaum, chief executive at GuardHill Financial, an independent mortgage lender in New York. "This is one of the most time-consuming parts of the process, because it is out of the client's own control," he said. The best strategy is to immediately call your accountant and ask for an estimate of how long it will take; that can determine how long a rate lock you need to seek for the refi. While you're at it, ask for digital copies of your last two years of business and personal tax returns -- "We normally just need federal returns," Mr. Rosenbaum said.

4. EXAMINE TRUST DOCUMENTS

If the title of the home is held in a trust, some lenders need a copy of the whole trust while others require specific pages, said Michael Farrell, president of Grandview Lending in Indianapolis, a broker for the Indiana residential market. Make sure you have the trust on hand; a digital copy is even better so that you can upload the required pages and forward them to your broker or lender.

Take a good look at those trust pages and make sure there are no typos -- particularly name misspellings. If there are, the pages will need to be redrafted by the trust attorney and notarized.

5. GO ON A CREDIT DIET

"Do not open a new auto loan, credit card or any new debt during the mortgage process," said Bill Banfield, executive vice president of capital markets for Quicken Loans, based in Detroit. New debt causes numerous problems. First, "it can affect your ability to qualify," said Mr. Banfield, if it pushes your debt-to-income balance out of the lender's parameters. But even if it doesn't, it takes time for a lender to look into the new source of debt, verify it and run the debt-to-income calculations again. Make sure you take on new debt before starting the refi process, or even better, after the new loan is closed.

As lenders process a tidal wave of refinancings, they are facing capacity problems, said Michael Fratantoni, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association. In normal times, they would hire and train new staff members and use outside firms to help. These aren't normal times, and closing may take 60 to 90 days rather than the industry standard of 30 to 45. While this can be a negative for a borrower eager to start making lower monthly payments, there is a silver lining to that, too. You'll have more time to resolve snafus.

Document J000000020200320eg3k0002w





The Coronavirus Pandemic: ECB Chief, Germany Clash on Aid

By Tom Fairless 
761 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

FRANKFURT -- As Christine Lagarde races to reassure financial markets she will do whatever it takes to stop the eurozone from unraveling, she is facing internal opposition to the European Central Bank's massive new bond-buying program, a central plank in her strategy to cope with the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic.

The 750 billion euro ($799.7 billion) Pandemic Emergency Purchase Program initially placated investors. But the features that helped calm markets -- its scale and flexible buying limits -- could raise concerns among lawyers and politicians, especially in Germany, the eurozone's largest economy, and end up undermining Ms. Lagarde's first big initiative since becoming president of the ECB.

People familiar with the matter said not all of the ECB's 25-member rate-setting committee agreed to the program Ms. Lagarde laid out on Wednesday. At least three senior officials -- the heads of the Austrian, Dutch and German central banks -- raised concerns about its central features, they said.

In the coming months, Ms. Lagarde will have to answer a number of awkward questions, namely: Will the bank lift limits on the types and quantities of securities it will buy? How aggressively will she support Southern European governments, which so far have borne the brunt of the pandemic? And will she encounter fresh resistance from Germany, whose top court is set to rule in May on the legality of the ECB's bond purchases?

The new program "could become politically contentious down the road as some will see this as hidden monetary financing" of eurozone governments, which is illegal under European Union treaties, said Oliver Rakau, an economist with Oxford Economics in Frankfurt.

Ms. Lagarde's efforts to help combat the spreading shock of the coronavirus have already suffered from a series of communication errors and mishaps that have pushed up borrowing costs for the region's struggling governments.

Some investors worry the former French finance minister will act less decisively than the ECB president she succeeded in November, the Italian Mario Draghi.

On an emergency teleconference call that started at 7:30 p.m. local time Wednesday, ECB officials all agreed that they needed to do something big, the people familiar with the matter said. Yields on Southern European debt were shooting up toward levels last seen during the region's debt crisis a decade ago, reviving fears about the future of the currency union, as markets fretted over how the region's indebted governments would finance surging costs related to the coronavirus.

Despite the concerns raised by the three central bank chiefs from Austria, the Netherlands and Germany, the ECB agreed to go ahead with the plan put forward by Ms. Lagarde, who previously sought to bridge internal divisions over the bank's broader strategy since taking over as president. The Austrian, Dutch and German central banks declined to comment.

Their concerns, the people familiar with the discussions said, revolved around at least two aspects of the bond-buying program.

The first was its scale, which at 750 billion euros would allow the ECB to buy almost 120 billion euros a month of eurozone government and corporate debt this year, the highest sum ever. Some officials would rather have seen a lower amount, the people said.

Some officials also raised concerns on the call about the ECB's suggestion that it could change its usual self-imposed limits on bond purchases to give it more room for maneuver. Normally, the ECB is restricted to buying only a third of any government's debt. The limit, a longstanding safeguard, is backed by the European courts.

In addition, the new program gives the ECB more flexibility to focus on buying the debt of Southern European governments, softening requirements that it only buy bonds in proportion to the size of each eurozone economy. That is likely to raise hackles in Germany, where top officials regularly berate the ECB for bond purchases they view as subsidizing spendthrift governments.

Still, Ms. Lagarde's plan is a shift after financial markets were disappointed last week with her initial 120 billion euro bond-buying program to support eurozone economies.

"At least the ECB is getting into a ballpark which is more meaningful," said Nick Kounis, an analyst with ABN Amro in Amsterdam.

He estimates that 750 billion euros is roughly double the amount of new spending that eurozone governments might be expected to make this year to fight the virus, and could add around 0.5% to the region's gross domestic product.

Document J000000020200320eg3k0005n





MANSION --- Private Properties: The Bomb-Proof Estate That Hosted a Prince

By Katherine Clarke 
593 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
M2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

A Los Angeles estate with a colorful history -- it was built in the Cold War to withstand an atomic bomb, and was later the subject of a legal squabble involving the late pop star Prince -- is coming on the market for $29.995 million.

Near West Hollywood, the eclectic compound comprises an 18,000-square-foot contemporary house with 10 bedrooms, a 3,300-square-foot English Tudor-style home and two vacant parcels. Altogether, the property is about 2.2 acres.

The main home was built in the 1950s by Hal B. Hayes, who according to numerous reports was a wealthy Hollywood contractor and a notorious playboy. He designed an underground atomic bomb shelter that could be accessed only by diving into the pool and swimming through a short tunnel; Mr. Hayes believed the pool water would serve as a decontaminant, according to the book "California Design 1930-1965" by Wendy Kaplan.

Listing agent Jason Oppenheim of the Oppenheim Group said he believes the sanctuary is still there, although he believes no one has gone to check on it in recent years.

The home was built with a fluted design to resist shock waves and a Gunite fireproof surface, according to 1953 profile by Popular Mechanics. Outside, a car was permanently installed to serve as a bar. The car is no longer there.

More recently, the house was in the news for its connection to the late pop star Prince, who was renting the property from then-owner and NBA player Carlos Boozer. In 2006, Mr. Boozer sued Prince in Los Angeles Superior Court, alleging the star had redecorated the home without his consent and, in particular, painted the Prince symbol and purple stripes on its exterior. The lawsuit was later dismissed, records show. Prince had been renting the home for around $70,000 a month, according to the suit.

Today, the home is dated in style but in good condition. The property is also a potential development opportunity since it includes so much vacant land, said Mr. Oppenheim. There is a long gated driveway, a ballroom with a stripper pole, a wine room, a tennis court, a gym and a four-car garage. The pool has a swim-up bar and grotto.

The current owner is a limited liability company tied to the Omidi family, records show. Julian Omidi is set to stand trial in October on charges stemming from a GET THIN's Lap-Band surgery scheme, according to a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in the Central District of California. His mother Cindy was convicted in 2014 of violating laws designed to prevent money laundering and was sentenced to probation, the spokesman confirmed.

William Welden, Ms. Omidi's attorney, said the property is owned by a company tied to her, and Julian Omidi has no interest in the property. He added that Ms. Omidi was not convicted of money laundering; her conviction was based on a technical structuring statute.

Julian Omidi denied the charges against him, saying they are based on a documented false and coerced confession by federal agents who had automatic weapons. He said the confession was drawn from a single witness and said the government is attempting to frame him.

Mr. Oppenheim, who appears on "Selling Sunset" on Netflix, shares the listing with colleagues Mary Fitzgerald and Peter Cornell as well as Brian Stace from Pinnacle Estate Properties. Mr. Oppenheim declined to comment on matters related to the sellers.

Document J000000020200320eg3k0002x





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Beijing Now Praises Doctor --- China tries to assuage public anger over death of physician who had raised virus alarms

By Chun Han Wong 
825 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

HONG KONG -- Weeks after Chinese social media erupted in grief and rage over the death of a doctor reprimanded by police for raising early alarms about the new coronavirus, Beijing is seeking to assuage public anger by rescinding his penalty and punishing those who rebuked him.

In remarks issued late Thursday, the Chinese government's top anticorruption agency praised Li Wenliang as a caring and committed doctor who was improperly punished by police for what officials now say were his well-intentioned efforts to alert others about the virus.

The National Supervisory Commission also warned against popular efforts to memorialize Dr. Li as a symbol of resistance against China's ruling Communist Party and its suppression of free speech. "Li Wenliang was a Communist Party member, not a so-called antiestablishment figure," a commission official said in remarks carried by state media.

The commission also said it has asked authorities in the central city of Wuhan -- where the pandemic began, and where Dr. Li was based -- to revoke the reprimand that local police had issued to the doctor and hold those involved to account.

Wuhan's police agency separately said it has nullified the reprimand, imposed administrative penalties on two officers and apologized to Dr. Li's family.

News of the commission's findings rippled rapidly across Chinese social media, where a hashtag about the report garnered more than 250 million views on the Weibo microblogging platform as of Thursday night. At one point, the volume of views grew by more than a million a minute.

While some Weibo users welcomed Dr. Li's rehabilitation, many more voiced incredulity and anger at what they saw as the scapegoating of local officials. "That's it?" many wrote in response, seemingly dissatisfied that the probe didn't answer questions about broader government failings.

"Grassroots-level police and Dr. Li Wenliang are the same," one Weibo user wrote. "Carrying the can for the erroneous judgments and decision-making by certain departments!"

Police in Wuhan had interrogated Dr. Li days after he warned former classmates on Dec. 30 about a new pathogen. They accused the doctor of spreading rumors and made him write a statement admitting to "illegal behavior."

Dr. Li, a 34-year-old ophthalmologist, was later infected by the coronavirus and died in early February. His plight captivated China and triggered an extraordinary outpouring of emotion as he lay ill. His death sparked widespread anger on Chinese social media, where users accused the Communist Party of silencing whistleblowers and mishandling its response to the coronavirus.

Millions of Chinese mourned Dr. Li and eulogized him as a hero who symbolized the public's determination to seek transparency and speech freedoms from their government.

Beijing has sought to mollify such sentiment. A day after Dr. Li died, the supervisory commission said it was sending a special team to investigate the circumstances around his treatment and death. Earlier this month, authorities named Dr. Li to an honor roll of 506 "vanguard" medical workers who distinguished themselves in epidemic-control efforts.

Central-government officials and state media have also blamed authorities in Hubei province and Wuhan, its capital, for initial missteps in their epidemic response, and replaced senior officials there.

The commission's probe culminated Thursday in a lengthy report detailing its findings on how Dr. Li received and passed along information about a coronavirus spreading in Wuhan, his subsequent punishment, as well as details on how he contracted the virus and died.

In a separate interview with the official Xinhua News Agency, an unidentified commission official sought to dispel speculation that medically unnecessary interventions were used to prolong Dr. Li's life for political purposes.

The official acknowledged the conflicting media reports and hospital announcements over the timing of Dr. Li's death. The official time of his death was in the early hours of Feb. 7 -- more than five hours after the first reports of his passing.

Medical personnel treating Dr. Li said "at the time they wanted to do their utmost to revive him, so they carried out resuscitation for a very long time," the official said.

The commission dismissed public perceptions of Dr. Li as a whistleblower, saying he had disseminated inaccurate information about the new virus without verifying it.

"In trying to attack the Chinese Communist Party and the Chinese government, some hostile forces have given Dr. Li Wenliang anti-establishment labels like 'hero' and 'awakener,' " the official said. These efforts to "fan flames, confuse people's minds and incite social emotions are destined to fail."

Such remarks didn't ward off a fresh outpouring of emotion on social media. "Dr. Li, perhaps tonight's outcome can give you a tiny bit of consolation," one user wrote. "But it's still far from sufficient to let you rest in peace."

Document J000000020200320eg3k0005p





U.S. News: Fed Likely to Buy Even More Bonds

By Nick Timiraos 
524 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Federal Reserve is likely to significantly boost its government-bond purchases beyond the $500 billion minimum it committed Sunday to buy amid market strains that sent interest rates higher in recent days.

The Fed took a significant step in that direction Thursday, announcing it would purchase $150 billion in securities on Thursday and Friday -- on top of $125 billion in purchases earlier this week.

This means the Fed will have bought more than half of the $500 billion in Treasury securities in one week with little sign of restored market functioning, pointing to a growing likelihood for a much more aggressive round of purchases than appeared likely just a few days ago. The central bank on Sunday also approved purchases of at least $200 billion in mortgage bonds.

Notably, the Fed didn't limit itself from additional purchases. Instead, the quantities announced Sunday, which it said would be executed over coming months, are minimum amounts the New York Fed has been directed to buy.

The rapid pace of bond buying suggests Fed officials will need to consider in the coming days how to communicate their intentions about even-larger quantities of purchases amid a full-throated effort to prevent strains in financial markets from undermining national efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic.

Mortgage bond markets have also shown severe strains in recent days, and the New York Fed said Thursday it would purchase $20 billion in those assets later in the day and $32 billion more on Friday.

The Fed purchased more than $3 trillion in Treasury and mortgage securities in three separate rounds of bond buying, dubbed quantitative easing or QE, between 2008 and 2014.

To get a sense of the scale of recent purchases, the current round is on pace to exceed in just weeks the $600 billion in the second round of bond buying, called QE2, that the Fed conducted between November 2010 and June 2011.

Those programs were criticized by some Republican lawmakers, conservative economists and some Fed officials. They warned it would lead to runaway inflation, which it didn't, or that it represented an improper incursion by the central bank into fiscal policy.

Thus far, the new purchases have met with few, if any, objections from lawmakers on Capitol Hill.

While an initial round of purchases was focused on improving market functioning during the height of the 2008 financial crisis, most of the purchases were aimed at helping stimulate economic growth by pushing down long-term yields and encouraging investors to buy riskier assets like corporate bonds and stocks.

The current purchases are focused squarely on reducing turmoil in financial markets, rather than on stimulating economic activity.

For the Fed and the Trump administration, the purchases could prove to be one of the most powerful tools deployed by the U.S. government. Not only do the purchases pump money into the financial system and avert higher borrowing costs, but they could facilitate the large federal budget deficits that will be needed to fight the virus and the economic toll it takes on the nation.

Document J000000020200320eg3k00065





U.S. News: Jobless Claims Soar in Harbinger of Upheaval

By Sarah Chaney and Amara Omeokwe 
471 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The number of Americans applying for first-time unemployment benefits increased sharply last week, the front end of a surge in jobless claims tied to the new coronavirus pandemic.

Initial jobless claims increased by 70,000 in the week ended Saturday to a seasonally adjusted 281,000, marking the fourth-biggest jump for jobless claims on record back to 1967. It also brought claims to the highest level since September 2017, following Hurricane Harvey, which struck the U.S. and disrupted business activity.

Several states specifically cited coronavirus-related layoffs last week, the report said. Many states have reported higher layoffs in services industries, particularly restaurants.

The survey period for Thursday's Labor Department release was before many states started reporting higher numbers of claims this week related to business closures because of the coronavirus.

"It certainly looks like we'll have a significant increase next week," said Josh Wright, chief economist at iCIMS Inc. "This is a national disaster that is already morphing into a financial and economic crisis."

The trajectory of jobless claims in the medium term depends on how many companies have a cash buffer to help weather the crisis, he said.

Earlier this week, many states ordered businesses in public places, such as restaurants and bars, to temporarily close to protect against the spread of coronavirus. The mandates hit employment in the leisure-and-hospitality industry, which accounts for about 11% of nonfarm payrolls, particularly hard.

States, including large ones such as New York, experienced a sudden rush for unemployment benefits, though it isn't clear what percentage of Americans seeking benefits were unemployed, furloughed or working reduced hours.

New York's website to register for unemployment benefits is averaging 250,000 logins a day, a 400% increase over its typical average, according to a department spokesperson.

Ohio's four-day total for jobless claims through Wednesday was 111,055, compared with about 4,000 for the same period last week. Connecticut filers submitted more than 30,000 new claims between Monday and Wednesday, compared with just 2,500 all last week. Michigan and Kentucky also reported jumps in volume.

Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, a state with one of the highest number of coronavirus cases, said in a Wednesday briefing that the state received 80,000 unemployment insurance applications Tuesday, compared with an average of 2,000 claims a day typically.

Washington, another state with a large number of coronavirus cases, is hiring more than 100 workers to handle unemployment applications, and extending its customer service to seven days a week.

Just a couple of weeks ago the labor market appeared robust, underscoring how quickly the virus has roiled the U.S. economy.

---

Nick Timiraos contributed to this article.



Document J000000020200320eg3k0003j



World News: World Watch

617 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

IMF

Mnuchin Ally Picked

As No. 2 Official

The International Monetary Fund formally approved the Trump administration's pick to become the fund's No. 2 official, just a week after his name was proposed, signaling a desire to coordinate closely with the U.S. government in providing IMF financial support to countries suffering from the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.

The appointment of Geoffrey Okamoto, a top international official in the U.S. Treasury Department , establishes a tie between the department and the IMF , the international lender of last resort. The IMF has said it is prepared to make its roughly $1 trillion lending capacity available to support the crisis response and recovery.

In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Okamoto, who will be the top American official at the IMF , said: "The message is very clear. We're going to do whatever it takes to get to the other side of this."

The IMF is collectively owned by its 189 member countries, but the U.S. is by far the institution's largest shareholder and its support can rapidly accelerate the fund's programs.

Mr. Okamoto, 35 years old, has been the Treasury's acting assistant secretary of the Treasury for international finance and development, where he has worked closely with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin for the past three years.

Mr. Okamoto said he saw his mission as ensuring the IMF acts swiftly with its programs, which can provide funds to destabilized governments.

-- Josh Zumbrun

---

GERMANY

Government Moves

On Far-Right Group

Germany carried out nationwide raids on alleged members of a secretive group who reject the authority of the state, adhere to racist ideologies and hoard weapons.

Authorities said they had banned the targeted group, called United German Peoples and Tribes, and uncovered guns, racist propaganda and drugs in the course of the searches.

The organization is affiliated with the so-called Citizens of the Reich, or Reichsburger, a loose-knit movement whose adherents reject Germany's government as illegitimate and have been involved in clashes with police and other state officials in recent years.

-- Bojan Pancevski

---

INDIA

Four Men Hanged for

Gang Rape-Murder

India on Friday morning hanged four men convicted of the 2012 gang rape and murder of a 23-year-old student in the capital, hoping to send the message that the nation takes women's safety seriously.

The attack, in which the woman was repeatedly raped and sexually assaulted with a metal bar on a moving bus before being dumped on a roadside, became one of India's most high-profile crimes against women. The victim, who can't be named publicly under Indian law, died in a Singapore hospital from her injuries 13 days after the attack.

The story of the crime that ended the life of a woman who was following her dream of carving a better life for herself and her family resonated with people in the world's largest democracy as it seeks its own footing as a rising economic power. It galvanized public opinion and sparked mass demonstrations, and demand for action. It led to the strengthening of laws and greater public awareness about violence against women.

Before the execution of the convicts, numerous pleas and appeals from them, their families and lawyers for mercy were turned down by the courts and the government. The last failed plea came hours before they were hanged at a jail in New Delhi about 5:30 a.m. Friday.

Talking to the media soon after the hangings, the mother of the woman spoke of her daughter. "I couldn't save her," she said, "but finally she got justice."

-- Krishna Pokharel

Document J000000020200320eg3k0001a





The Coronavirus Pandemic: BOE Cuts Key Rate, Plans to Buy Bonds

By Jason Douglas 
285 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LONDON -- The Bank of England cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low and said it would buy GBP 200 billion ($232 billion) of U.K. government bonds, the latest in a flurry of central-bank action to combat the economic damage form the coronavirus.

At an emergency meeting, policy makers concluded that further stimulus was needed to ease growing financial strain and support growth and inflation, the BOE said Thursday.

Officials voted unanimously to cut the BOE's benchmark rate to 0.1% from 0.25%, just a week after announcing a half-percentage-point rate reduction and a new program to support lending to small and midsize businesses. They also agreed to increase the size of the BOE's bond portfolio to GBP 645 billion, from GBP 445 billion.

"We are in an absolutely unprecedented situation," Bank of England Gov. Andrew Bailey said. He said officials acted outside their normal schedule following a selloff in sterling, U.K. government bonds and other assets in tumultuous trading this week, financial strains that were pushing up borrowing costs and sapping credit for businesses and households.

He said officials expect the U.K. to suffer a sharp contraction in output as the virus takes its toll and that the BOE is ready to go further if more stimulus is required. "No, we're not done," Mr. Bailey said.

The European Central Bank on Wednesday unveiled a new 750 billion euros ($799.7 billion) bond-buying program.

The Federal Reserve on Thursday said it would expand its program to lend dollars to nine additional central banks to alleviate strains in financial markets.

Document J000000020200320eg3k0001e





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Brazil Shuts Borders as Region Tries to Stem Outbreak

By Jeffrey T. Lewis and Kejal Vyas 
462 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

SAO PAULO -- Brazil closed its borders with eight neighboring countries on Thursday, joining other South American nations in a continentwide quarantine as authorities struggle to control the spread of the coronavirus.

The measure taken by Brazil, the region's largest economy, applies to Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Guyana and the French overseas department of Guiana. Brazil's border with Venezuela was already closed. The border with Uruguay remains open for now.

Brazil has a total of about 10,000 miles of land borders with its neighbors, and all but about 650 miles of them, with Uruguay, are now closed.

In recent days, countries across the region have quickly moved to seal national borders as coronavirus cases rise, leaving thousands of travelers stranded. And the downturn in China has drawn fears of a protracted slowdown for South America's largely commodities-driven economies and a tougher rebound.

"South America was caught flat-footed, and now they're trying to catch up," said Eric Farnsworth, who tracks the region for the Americas Society/Council of the Americas, a Washington-based policy group. "2020 was already going to be a year of sluggish growth. Now, the virus is clearly going to add downward pressure."

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Thursday downgraded its economic projections for Latin America, citing the fallout from the spread of the virus. Economists for the company had expected modest growth in 2020, but now forecast a 1.2% contraction for the region's seven-biggest countries, with gross domestic product shrinking in Brazil, Mexico, Chile, Argentina and Ecuador as well. Goldman Sachs forecasts zero growth in Colombia and Peru.

Some of the region's biggest businesses are being forced to cut back operations. Chilean-based Latam Airlines Group SA said it was canceling 90% of its international flights, while asking workers to take a 50% pay cut.

Corporacion Nacional del Cobre de Chile, or Codelco, the world's biggest copper producer, said it was ramping down its operations in Chile to protect the health of workers as President Sebastian Pinera on Thursday announced a $11.7 billion plan to support the economy.

Brazil, which has reported six deaths from the virus, closed its land borders with its neighboring countries for 15 days, with the possibility of an extension, according to the official government newspaper.

Brazilian citizens and residents are still allowed to enter the country, as are foreign citizens working for international organizations or otherwise authorized by the Brazilian government. Trucks carrying commercial goods are also permitted to cross the border.

On Thursday, Colombia also said travelers, including Colombian citizens, would be barred from entering the country beginning next week.

Document J000000020200320eg3k00034





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Brazil Shuts Borders as Region Tries to Stem Outbreak

By Jeffrey T. Lewis and Kejal Vyas 
462 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

SAO PAULO -- Brazil closed its borders with eight neighboring countries on Thursday, joining other South American nations in a continentwide quarantine as authorities struggle to control the spread of the coronavirus.

The measure taken by Brazil, the region's largest economy, applies to Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Guyana and the French overseas department of Guiana. Brazil's border with Venezuela was already closed. The border with Uruguay remains open for now.

Brazil has a total of about 10,000 miles of land borders with its neighbors, and all but about 650 miles of them, with Uruguay, are now closed.

In recent days, countries across the region have quickly moved to seal national borders as coronavirus cases rise, leaving thousands of travelers stranded. And the downturn in China has drawn fears of a protracted slowdown for South America's largely commodities-driven economies and a tougher rebound.

"South America was caught flat-footed, and now they're trying to catch up," said Eric Farnsworth, who tracks the region for the Americas Society/Council of the Americas, a Washington-based policy group. "2020 was already going to be a year of sluggish growth. Now, the virus is clearly going to add downward pressure."

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Thursday downgraded its economic projections for Latin America, citing the fallout from the spread of the virus. Economists for the company had expected modest growth in 2020, but now forecast a 1.2% contraction for the region's seven-biggest countries, with gross domestic product shrinking in Brazil, Mexico, Chile, Argentina and Ecuador as well. Goldman Sachs forecasts zero growth in Colombia and Peru.

Some of the region's biggest businesses are being forced to cut back operations. Chilean-based Latam Airlines Group SA said it was canceling 90% of its international flights, while asking workers to take a 50% pay cut.

Corporacion Nacional del Cobre de Chile, or Codelco, the world's biggest copper producer, said it was ramping down its operations in Chile to protect the health of workers as President Sebastian Pinera on Thursday announced a $11.7 billion plan to support the economy.

Brazil, which has reported six deaths from the virus, closed its land borders with its neighboring countries for 15 days, with the possibility of an extension, according to the official government newspaper.

Brazilian citizens and residents are still allowed to enter the country, as are foreign citizens working for international organizations or otherwise authorized by the Brazilian government. Trucks carrying commercial goods are also permitted to cross the border.

On Thursday, Colombia also said travelers, including Colombian citizens, would be barred from entering the country beginning next week.

Document J000000020200320eg3k0008f





Ex-Google Car Project Engineer in Plea Deal

By Elizabeth Wollman 
440 words
20 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Anthony Levandowski, the engineer charged in August with 33 counts of trade-secret theft from Google's self-driving car project, reached a deal with U.S. prosecutors in which he will plead guilty to one count and the remaining charges will be dropped.

According to a court filing Thursday, Mr. Levandowski will plead guilty to the last count in the indictment, charging him with theft and attempted theft of trade secrets related to "Project Chauffeur," as Google's autonomous vehicle program was called at the time.

Specifically, Mr. Levandowski said he downloaded a weekly update for the program "with the intent to use it to benefit someone other than Google," the legal filing shows.

"Mr. Levandowski accepts responsibility and is looking forward to resolving this matter," Miles Ehrlich, a lawyer for Mr. Levandowski, said in a statement. "Mr. Levandowski is a young man with enormous talents and much to contribute to the fast-moving world of AI and AV and we hope that this plea will allow him to move on with his life and focus his energies where they matter most."

Mr. Levandowski left Google's self-driving car unit, Waymo, in 2016 and helped start a company soon acquired by Uber Technologies Inc.

Google parent Alphabet Inc. sued Uber in 2017, claiming that Mr. Levandowski stole more than 14,000 confidential files before leaving Google. Waymo and Uber settled the lawsuit in 2018, but not before the judge in the case asked federal prosecutors to investigate Uber and Mr. Levandowski over possible trade-secret theft.

"Mr. Levandowski's guilty plea in a criminal hearing today brings to an end a seminal case for our company and the self-driving industry, and underscores the value of Waymo's intellectual property," a spokeswoman for Waymo said in a statement.

According to the plea agreement, Mr. Levandowski agreed to a level 17 offense, which has federal guidelines for a sentence of 24 to 30 months in prison. He also agreed to pay Waymo $756,499 restitution.

The plea agreement will resolve the criminal charges against Mr. Levandowski, but there are outstanding issues with his previous employers.

Earlier this month, a judge ordered Mr. Levandowski to pay $179 million to Google, the sum of an award determined in December by an arbitration panel plus interest and lawyers' fees.

The same day of the legal judgment, Mr. Levandowski filed for bankruptcy, listing estimated assets of $50 million to $100 million and estimated liabilities of $100 million to $500 million.

A spokesman for Uber declined to comment.

---

Preetika Rana contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200320eg3k00067





REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Coronavirus and Public Order

401 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A14
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Pressure groups of all stripes see an opportunity in the coronavirus crisis, and that includes criminal-justice activists. Even as society locks down, localities across the country are unlocking jail cells and softening law enforcement to slow the spread of the disease. The risk is that public order starts to unravel at a time it is most needed.

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio said Wednesday the city would identify for release "any inmates who need to be brought out because of either their own health conditions" or "because the charges were minor." Los Angeles County jails have reduced their number of inmates by more than 1,000 since last month and arrests are down sharply. In one county in the San Francisco Bay area, 247 inmates were granted early release this week.

A group of progressive local prosecutors put out a letter calling for "steps to dramatically reduce detention and the incarcerated population." They also want police departments to adopt "cite and release policies for offenses which pose no immediate physical threat." Philadelphia has already implemented a delayed-arrest policy for non-violent offenses including theft and drug crimes, according to the Philadelphia Inquirer. Local news outlets report that police departments from Denver to Southwest Florida are aiming to cut down on arrests to minimize exposure of officers and jail workers.

Some of these steps may be necessary. Crowded jails could face ugly virus outbreaks and they may need to create space to quarantine inmates who get sick. Yet it's important that the virus doesn't simply become a political license for under-enforcement that progressives couldn't get into law in normal times. Cyber-criminals are already exploiting the situation with phishing scams, and public disorder could spread as lockdowns continue, unemployment surges and economic pressure builds.

Like the virus, crime can appear suddenly and grow quickly. We know from the history of broken-windows policing that proactive enforcement suppresses crime, and we know from the crime spike that followed the Ferguson, Mo., controversy of 2014 that relaxed enforcement can embolden criminals. Even as law enforcement takes reasonable steps against the virus, we hope officials remember that the nation's response will suffer if private property isn't protected and public order isn't maintained.

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Public Order, the Coronavirus and Jail Policy" -- WSJ April 3, 2020)

Document J000000020200321eg3l0003a





REVIEW --- The End of Globalization? Don't Count On It --- The Covid-19 pandemic might be closing borders and disrupting supply chains, but it can't stop our long-term movement toward a more interconnected world.

By Zachary Karabell 
2,293 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Corrections & Amplifications

The United Nations World Tourism Organization estimated there were 1.5 billion international tourist arrivals last year. A Review article on Saturday about globalization incorrectly said 14 billion.

(WSJ March 24, 2020)

(END)

Over the past week, the coronavirus has gone from an Asian contagion with ripple effects on international supply chains to a global pandemic that will plunge the whole world into recession. Travel has been halted across the globe. Borders are shut. Hundreds of millions of people are in effective lockdown in the European Union, and the U.S. is heading in that direction. The crisis has erased trillions of dollars from global stock markets and imperiled the future of millions of small businesses around the world, along with the livelihoods of vast numbers of wage earners.

In the months ahead, we are likely to see one of the sharpest economic contractions on record, and the downturn will undoubtedly serve as yet more evidence for those who have argued in recent years that globalization is coming to an end, or at least being rolled back. Nicolas Tenzer, chair of the Cerap think tank in Paris, argues that the rising barriers in response to the virus will strengthen "the populist and nationalist forces that have long called for reinforcing borders. It is a true gift for them." The veteran U.S. market commentator Gary Shilling recently wrote, "The coronavirus's depressing effects on the global economy and disruptions of supply chains is . . . driving the last nail into the coffin of the globalists." Ian Bremmer, founder of the risk-consultancy Eurasia Group, sees a starker era ahead, including more palpable tension between the U.S. and China. "Globalization has been the biggest driver of economic growth," he says. "Its trajectory is now shifting, largely for geopolitical reasons, and that will be accelerated by the coronavirus crisis."

In the midst of our current spiral, it is hard to resist such dire forecasts. But we should. There is every reason to think that our post-coronavirus future will see not an end to the globalizing trend of recent decades but a new chapter in that story. The sudden halt in commerce and travel precipitated by the outbreak will not snap back overnight, and the next few years will see a re-nationalization of some industries for countries that can. But when this crisis passes, we are likely to find fresh confirmation of what we already know about globalization: that it's easy to hate, convenient to target and impossible to stop.

Even before the virus, there were indications of both a pause and a modest pullback in globalization. Last year, global trade contracted a smidgen, by less than 1%, but at $19 trillion, it was still higher than any year before the record-setting 2018. As for China and the U.S., the dual effect of the Trump administration's tariffs and the assertive nationalism of Xi Jinping put a brake on further integration. Data from the U.S. Census Bureau show that the total value of trade in goods between the two countries declined from $630 billion in 2017 to $560 billion in 2019. Even so, this pullback just puts the U.S. and China back at the trade level of 2013. And that amount, it should be noted, is almost five times what it was in 2001. In short, even after two years of trade war and diplomatic acrimony, the key axis of globalization was dented, but only barely.

As the U.S. was erecting tariffs, the Chinese government, for its part, was ramping up spending abroad. Since 2014, China's Belt and Road Initiative has invested almost $1 trillion in Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and elsewhere. According to the consulting firm Gavekal Dragonomics, the rate of new Chinese investment slowed to just over $100 billion last year, but the initiative remains an incontrovertible example of China-driven globalization.

Nor is the coronavirus likely to reverse that trend. A recent report from the Carnegie Endowment notes that, as China emerges more swiftly from the crisis than other parts of the world, its leaders are hinting that they plan to increase investments abroad in a world that will be hungry for capital. In recent weeks, Beijing has delivered medical supplies, equipment and doctors to Italy and other EU countries. As the crisis expands, China appears committed to more engagement with the outside world, not less.

The same has been true for the private sector in the U.S. Even before the eruption of the coronavirus, there was considerable discussion of the need for economic decoupling from China. But displeasure with the bilateral relationship hasn't meant any real retrenchment away from globalization for American firms; they have instead tried to diversify and establish connections to other parts of the world.

Apple, for instance, had bet heavily on China as a manufacturing and distribution hub as well as a burgeoning market, which made the company vulnerable when tensions and tariffs flared. As The Journal recently reported, Apple is now looking to move some of its China-based operations elsewhere, in reaction to both the trade war and the supply chain havoc caused by the coronavirus. But the company's likeliest move will be to other locations in East Asia, not to American shores.

The recently rejiggered North American free-trade agreement is another instance of continued U.S. commitment to globalization, even on the part of the skeptical Trump administration. The agreement is designed to facilitate more trade, and the scale of continental trade is indeed increasing. Mexico is now the largest U.S. trading partner, outstripping both Canada and China.

Data compiled by the Organization for International Investment show that foreign direct investment in the U.S., although down in 2019 after reaching a peak in 2015 and 2016 of $500 billion, was still above the level of every other prior year. On the other side of the equation, U.S. investment abroad decreased to just under $6 trillion at the end of 2018 (the last year for which data is available) due to repatriation of earnings held by companies abroad. But to put that number in perspective: It was barely $1 trillion in 2001.

The same pattern pertains everywhere. In Europe, Brexit notwithstanding, economic integration continues apace. In fact, Brexit spurred a substantial increase in cross-border investments within the remaining eurozone countries. The shock of one of its key members leaving seems to have redoubled the efforts of the remaining 27 nations to draw closer, with a 43% increase in 2019 alone, according to data firm FDI Markets. A study from the London School of Economics shows that Brexit even spurred more British investment in Europe, with an increase of 12% between the 2016 referendum and the end of 2018.

The post-coronavirus recovery is certain to bring increased spending from individual European governments and the EU itself. Europe's recovery from the financial crisis of 2007-08 was hampered by north-south divisions. With the coronavirus now hitting the whole continent with growing force, those divisions will subside. The European Central Bank has already announced a 750 billion euro ($810 billion) bond-buying program; in the worst phase of the last financial crisis, it took months of acrimonious debate for the ECB to do much at all.

Post-virus investment is likely to pick up as well throughout Latin America, Africa and especially East Asia, where the Trans-Pacific Partnership (absent the U.S.) has streamlined economic relations. Such connections will expand in the wake of the present crisis, for reasons not of altruism but of self-interest.

The coronavirus pandemic is, obviously, a negative byproduct of our hyper-connected world, and it has brought about a nearly complete halt of global travel and tourism. When countries were truly more like islands, diseases had less opportunity to skip from population to population. The scale of travel today for tourism, trade and business has made it far harder to contain a pandemic. In 1950, according to the U.N. World Tourism Organization, there were 25 million tourist arrivals; last year, there were 14 billion.

And tourism has become a booming business across the world. Between 2006 and 2019, it grew from $5 trillion in direct and indirect value to more than $9 trillion. The continuing collapse of demand for travel will be acutely felt and ripple around the world, from Cambodian resorts to Mexican beaches and New York musicals.

Yet tourism and travel, along with the related phenomenon of millions of students from dozens of countries studying abroad, are among the more potent symbols of how deeply interconnected the world has become. The alarming spread of the coronavirus in recent weeks has indeed provoked a drawbridge reaction in many countries, but the response also suggests that the only reliable inoculation against future pandemics will be transnational cooperation.

By all accounts, such coordination is already in play in the medical and scientific community, as they race to understand the virus and create cures and treatments. More international partnerships will be necessary as we assess the economic wreckage that the pandemic will leave. Enlightened self-interest in working together to prevent such a crisis from happening again could well trump the knee-jerk reaction to retreat to national fortresses that are anything but secure.

Though months without familiar modes of travel may forever change patterns of behavior, judging from how people have snapped back after previous crises, that seems unlikely. Once the worst has passed, we may find waves of pent-up demand for millions of people to venture once more into the world, this time with coordinated health screening across countries akin to what emerged in the post-9/11 world to prevent the flow of people, money and goods that might support terrorist organizations.

And then there is the flow of capital. Markets in the past few weeks have crashed globally, in sync and almost simultaneously. In the U.S., as much as $10 trillion has been erased from markets. Every major market in the world saw equities lose 20% to 30%, and bonds have swung wildly and destructively.

But it isn't just goods and people that have circled the world in ever more energetic motion over the past two decades; money has too. In the past 15 years, according to the Federal Reserve, U.S. holdings of foreign securities rose from $6 trillion to more than $12 trillion, and similar explosive growth occurred for countries around the world. That has gone hand in hand with loosening rules on capital flows. China alone, among major economic players, has meaningful capital restrictions, and only its domestic markets move out of sync with the financial markets of the rest of the world.

The absence of any real capital controls and the vastly increased appetite to invest everywhere is why financial markets began crashing once the coronavirus leapt from China. It took weeks for the disease itself to move from South Korea to Europe to the U.S., but it only took days for the financial contagion to spread. That is the pain of the moment for investors, but it is also provides a glimmer of the possible pace and scale of the global recovery when it arrives. Money can evaporate in a heartbeat and flow in an instant.

It is easy to imagine the demise of our massively interdependent world at a moment when it comes to a rapid, vertiginous halt. But a sharp contraction caused by a pandemic is not the same as a permanent reversal of the deep and complicated global integration of supply chains, markets and daily life built up over the past two decades. Those relationships are durable and beneficial and will be difficult to sever. Some are ready to try, but most of the world isn't eager to renationalize industry, make trillions of dollars of global investment worthless and suppress the appetite for easy travel and free movement of people, goods and capital. The coronavirus is unlikely to be the moment when we see the collapse of a broad historical trend that has endured through the Great Depression, World War II, the Cold War and innumerable other crises, from 9/11 to the financial upheaval of 2007-08.

The months ahead will feel like the presumptive end of an era of globalization. And it may be the end of globalization's first phase, with its heady optimism and corresponding ideological and economic backlash. But there will be a next phase, one less rosy-eyed and less sour as well.

As citizens emerge from various forms of sheltering in place, they will confront the days of spring with the relief and bewilderment of our predecessors in World War II emerging from a bomb shelter the morning after. They will find a changed world of travel limitations and viral testing but also a massive global system that remains structurally intact, if on the defensive philosophically. But the sheer scale of what has been created over the past several decades, to say nothing of the enormous benefits that have flowed from it for billions of people, will preclude a lasting reversal. We will discover that we are indeed all in this together.

Is it possible that we are truly at the end? Yes, but not likely. Globalization is dead. Long live globalization.

---

Mr. Karabell is the author, most recently, of "The Leading Indicators: A Short History of the Numbers That Rule Our World" (Simon & Schuster).

Document J000000020200321eg3l0002v





REVIEW --- Books: Craving Connection

By Anna Mundow 
1,064 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
C10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Glass Hotel

By Emily St. John Mandel

Knopf, 301 pages, $26.95

Six years ago, Emily St. John Mandel's dystopian novel "Station Eleven" opened with the Georgia Flu pandemic decimating our species and ended -- two decades after the collapse of civilization -- with one of the survivors daring to imagine a future. "Clark looks up at the evening activity on the tarmac, at the planes that have been grounded for twenty years, the reflection of his candle flickering in the glass. He has no expectation of seeing an airplane rise again in his lifetime, but is it possible that somewhere there are ships setting out? If there are again towns with streetlights . . . then what else might this awakening world contain?" That consoling vision was accompanied, however, by an overwhelming sense of loss for many readers, and no wonder. In "Station Eleven," Ms. Mandel had created a dreamlike reality so tangible and complete that emerging from it felt like banishment. (The audio book, by the way, only enhances that sensation.) And ever since then, this writer's exiled devotees have wondered where she would take them next.

The answer, perhaps surprisingly, is to the world of money, which materializes in Ms. Mandel's new novel, "The Glass Hotel," as both familiar and profoundly strange. The catastrophe this time is financial, not biological. A swindler, not a pandemic, is to blame (in events that mirror the 2008 collapse of Bernie Madoff's Ponzi scheme), and contagion is limited to a population of eager investors, one of whom learns the truth from his accountant this way:

"Your money's gone," she said softly.

"All of it?"

"Leon, it wasn't real . . ."

The question of what is real -- be it love, money, place or memory -- has always been at the heart of Ms. Mandel's fiction. From the betrayals running through "Last Night in Montreal" (2009) to the identity fraud in "The Singer's Gun" (2010) and the switchback crimes of "The Lola Quartet" (2012), her narratives snake their way across treacherous, shifting terrain. Certainties are blurred, truth becomes malleable and in "The Glass Hotel" the con man thrives. "He had that trick," Leon observes, referring to the Ponzi scheme's perpetrator, "of appearing utterly indifferent to what anyone thought of him, and in so doing provoking the opposite anxiety in other people: What does Alkaitis think of me?" The head of a fraudulent investment company, Jonathan Alkaitis owns, among other palaces, an island hotel in British Columbia where, on a brief visit, he reels in Leon Prevant, a gullible shipping executive. Alkaitis also charms Vincent Smith, the hotel's young, but far from gullible, female bartender. "In the way he spoke to her, his obvious wealth and his obvious interest, she saw an opening into a vastly easier life or at least a different life," Vincent admits, ignoring, while she can, the price she might pay.

A fascinatingly elusive character, Vincent quickly becomes Alkaitis's second wife (though he never formally marries her) and glides between Manhattan and Connecticut, Europe and Dubai, until the Ponzi scheme implodes, the "kingdom of money" vanishes and Alkaitis is imprisoned for life. Bewildered at first, he "pretends he's on an alien planet" and then, as decades of incarceration pass, retreats into an imaginary existence. "When he isn't in the counterlife," as Alkaitis thinks of that realm, "he likes to dwell in a green field in his hometown, in the twilight following a family picnic."

The victims of Alkaitis's crimes are also plunged into an altered reality, one in which money simply evaporates and the certainties of everyday life disintegrate. Financially destitute Leon Prevant and his wife, for example, enter the "shadow country" of the poor, migrating across the country from one menial job to the next. "You stare at the road and the road stares back," Leon muses at a truck stop where desperate girls hitch rides at night: "They'd all been cut loose, they'd slipped beneath the surface of the United States, they were adrift." Vincent, for her part, goes to sea, becoming a ship's cook to sail the world, recalling her long-disappeared mother's stories of "northern lights shifting over a winter sky, the silent towers of icebergs in a dark gray sea."

Such lyrical, hypnotic images -- of a shoreline at dusk, for example, or a city street at dawn -- suspend us in a kind of hallucinatory present where every detail is sharply defined yet queasily unreliable. A sense of unease thickens as the novel's interlinked narratives orbit the main drama of Alkaitis's downfall. Characters such as Walter, the island hotel's manager; Olivia, an aging painter duped by Alkaitis; and Paul, Vincent's aimless half-brother, each wonderfully drawn, disappear and reappear, tilting the novel's perspective and tightening the suspense as the narrative meanders back and forth in time. Chronology, as always in Ms. Mandel's fiction, becomes fluid. "The Glass Hotel" opens and ends with a drowning in 2018, and in between follows an elliptical course whose starting point is 1994. Toward the end, there is a leap forward to 2029. The dead begin to visit the living. Characters from previous novels surface -- Leon and his former assistant Miranda are here from "Station Eleven," Alkaitis from "The Lola Quartet" -- and Vincent idly imagines what the Georgia Flu might have wrought had it not been swiftly contained.

All of which is clever and, perhaps intentionally, alienating. For in this hall-of-mirrors novel, Ms. Mandel invites us to observe her characters from a distance even as we enter their lives, a feat she achieves with remarkable skill. And if the result is a sense not only of detachment but also of desolation, then maybe that's the point. "I'm happiest when I'm away from other people," Walter confesses when he becomes caretaker of the shuttered hotel. "Without furniture, the lobby was like a shadowy ballroom," he later observes, contentedly, "a vast empty space with a panorama of wilderness beyond the glass: inland waters, green shorelines, a pier with no boats." The scene, in its tranquility, recalls Clark's final vision in "Station Eleven," but the wounded survivors of this catastrophe crave connection in vain. They settle instead for isolation.

---

Ms. Mundow is a writer living in central Massachusetts.

Document J000000020200321eg3l0000x





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Tax-Filing Deadline Extended to July 15

By Richard Rubin 
220 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A6
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The U.S. is extending the April 15 tax-filing deadline to July 15, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Friday. That will give people more time to prepare and pay their taxes as workers lose jobs and businesses close during the coronavirus pandemic.

Earlier this past week, the Internal Revenue Service said that most taxpayers could defer payments until July but would still have to file their tax returns or seek extensions by April 15. That announcement drew quick criticism from lawmakers and tax preparers, who warned that they couldn't get those filings done or would have to risk their safety and health to do it.

And tax filers who typically get help at sites staffed by IRS volunteers or use IRS tax help for the elderly may have trouble getting the information they need as the government limits face-to-face interactions during the pandemic.

So Mr. Mnuchin offered the additional extensions on Friday.

Still, he urged Americans who are expecting tax refunds to file when they can, so that they can get their money.

Mr. Mnuchin's tweets didn't specify how the updated deadlines would work. The IRS typically handles that with a detailed notice, but that hasn't been released yet.

Document J000000020200321eg3l00013





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Britain Escalates Its Response

By Jason Douglas 
779 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

LONDON -- The British government stepped up its response to the coronavirus epidemic, telling companies it would foot the lion's share of their salary bills as long as they hang on to workers, and ordering all bars and restaurants in the country to close.

The broad package of measures, announced by Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Treasury chief Rishi Sunak, marks another escalation in world-wide efforts to fight the disease and pave the way for an eventual economic revival.

The salvo by U.K. policy makers is aimed at preventing mass layoffs and supporting workers' incomes as the coronavirus threat -- and an intensifying government squeeze to contain it -- shuts down chunks of British business.

Mr. Johnson said as of Friday all bars, pubs, restaurants, cafes, gyms and theaters must shut their doors, an effort to slow the spread of a virus that has infected almost 4,000 in the U.K. and killed 177.

The prime minister's decision marks another shift away from an unorthodox strategy that had so far avoided strict measures adopted in other countries. Mr. Johnson said the escalation is needed "to push down further on that curve of transmission between us."

He acknowledged Britons may find it difficult. "We are taking away the ancient, inalienable right of freeborn people of the United Kingdom to go to the pub," he said.

The new measures augment an economic-policy response that has already included deep interest-rate cuts and large-scale asset purchases by the Bank of England. The latest steps add to fiscal commitments that potentially could reach GBP 400 billion ($459 billion), or around 16% of the country's annual national income.

"We're going to defeat this disease with a huge national effort," Mr. Johnson said at a press conference.

In the U.S., the Federal Reserve has cut short-term interest rates, revived asset purchases and taken action to ease funding strains in financial markets. Lawmakers are debating a Trump administration plan to send checks directly to Americans as part of a $1 trillion stimulus package to help households and businesses.

But there are already signs of mounting layoffs, with malls, restaurants and hotels closing in many areas of the country.

The British plan, which echoes policies already adopted by other European states, is aimed at avoiding such layoffs, though economists say some increase in unemployment is unavoidable as the havoc wrought by the virus tips the country toward recession.

Mr. Sunak, a former hedge fund executive who has been in the role of Chancellor of the Exchequer for less than two months, said that the government will make an intervention in the economy "unprecedented in the history of the British state."

He said the Treasury will dish out cash to companies to cover the cost of 80% of workers' wages provided they don't lay them off as the disease rages.

The program will be up and running before the end of April, will run for at least three months, and can be extended, Mr. Sunak said. Payments are capped at GBP 2,500 ($2,871) a month. Firms that need cash immediately can tap banks for government-backed, interest-free loans from Monday, he said.

Mr. Sunak said the government will finance the payments with additional borrowing and didn't put a ceiling on the amount it is prepared to spend. Economists at consulting firm Oxford Economics estimated the bill for three months would be around GBP 18 billion, depending on takeup.

Mr. Sunak also announced that firms can defer payment of value-added tax, a sales tax, until the end of June, forgoing for now around GBP 30 billion in tax revenue. He also increased out-of-work benefits and said the self-employed won't need to file a tax return until next year.

Other European governments have taken similar steps to aid companies and workers. Germany has revived a financial crisis-era program to pay workers forced to work part-time or furloughed altogether.

In Denmark, the government Sunday said it would pay 75% of the wages of workers in companies that had been hard hit by the virus. The Dutch government has announced a similar initiative, which will cover 90% of wages where businesses would otherwise have to fire workers.

The fiscal package comes after the Bank of England on Thursday cut its benchmark interest rate to 0.1%, the lowest level since the central bank's foundation in 1694, and said it would buy GBP 200 billion of U.K. government bonds to support the economy and stabilize jittery markets for sterling-denominated assets.

Document J000000020200321eg3l00030





Low-Wage Workers Face Brunt of Coronavirus Crisis --- Double hit for service jobs: layoffs, plus high risk of contagion

By Eric Morath and Rachel Feintzeig 
1,866 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

As coronavirus shutdowns halt commerce across the U.S., low-wage workers, many of whom live paycheck to paycheck, are being quickly stung.

The affected jobs, by their nature, often require personal contact, such as running a cash register or cleaning hotel rooms. That substantially raises the risk of infection.

Many such workers also hold positions most vulnerable to quick job cuts and pay cuts, especially in service industries.

That includes restaurant workers, hotel maids, dog walkers and child-care providers. In many cases, the cuts are tied to shutdowns and cancellations at sports stadiums, conventions, casinos, music festivals and other gatherings.

The group encompasses many workers who were late beneficiaries of the surge in hiring as the labor market tightened in recent years -- including members of minority groups or people with less education and skills -- during one of the longest and most lucrative growth phases in U.S. history.

Malls, restaurants and hotels have closed. Already, the number of Americans seeking unemployment benefits -- a proxy for layoffs -- increased last week by 70,000 from the previous week, with states telling the Labor Department the cause was the pandemic. Economists predict a much bigger surge when numbers are released for this week, with Goldman Sachs Economics Research estimating roughly 2.25 million new claims for jobless benefits.

More than 90% of the announced U.S. job cuts tied to the coronavirus were at restaurants and other entertainment and leisure businesses, according to outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas.

For many who retain their jobs, tips and commissions have evaporated. Working at home isn't an option, nor is sick pay.

"I don't want to leave the job because it's my financial stability," said Chandler Schaffer, who is 23 and earns $10.50 an hour working at a pawnshop in South Carolina. For now, he is continuing to work even though he has diabetes and is terrified of being infected by the virus. "Right now it's a very big pit of uncertainty with everything," he said.

Line cook Che Janezich, 35, has watched the crowds thin and her hours dwindle at Omega Ouzeri, the Greek restaurant where she works in Seattle, making $21 an hour, or about $3,000 a month.

Now that the city has shut down restaurants except for takeout service, Ms. Janezich said Thursday that her hours, which went from 45 a week to 25 recently, were cut again to about 11 a week. She has already tapped her savings to pay rent this month.

"I walk down the street and see homeless people every single day. I've always known I'm a paycheck or two away from that," she said. "But now it seems even more real, which is scary."

She said the only places hiring in the area now are the Amazon.com warehouse or grocery stores, which she said feels like a step backward: "It's like that cliche of you don't know how good you have it until it's gone."

There are more than 34 million people in this pool of the most vulnerable workers, or about a quarter of the private workforce. About half this group were employed in services jobs in the hospitality industry, where occupations earn less than the overall median pay for all U.S. workers of $18.58. The median wage for a restaurant job is $11.09 an hour.

The other half come from retail, personal and maintenance service jobs -- many of which start at the minimum wage, as low as $7.25 an hour, depending on the state.

Despite an economic expansion that brought with it a 50-year low in unemployment, many households remain a paycheck away from financial stress. Almost 40% of Americans don't have enough cash on hand to cover an unexpected $400 expense, a 2019 Federal Reserve survey concluded.

The virus relief bill passed by Congress this week expands unemployment insurance and provides more money for food stamps, aiming to provide an initial safety net as layoffs increase. The bill also requires businesses with fewer than 500 employees provide two weeks of paid leave in certain circumstances, with an additional 10 weeks of leave at two-thirds pay for workers to care for children when schools or day cares close.

Meanwhile, potential direct payments to Americans, part of a further stimulus package under discussion in Congress, could provide a cash cushion.

"Getting infected with the virus is not as much of an existential threat to my life as not having money for rent and food," said Ali Tahir, of Austin, Texas, who operates a small catering business and works as an event bartender. The two gigs are his only source of income and both are essentially shut down.

He thinks he can't file for unemployment benefits because, like many low-wage and gig-workers, he is self-employed and therefore ineligible.

Mr. Tahir, 35, was counting on making at least $4,000 this month with work surrounding South by Southwest, a weeklong music and film festival that drew 400,000 people last year. This year's event was canceled.

March is normally his busiest month, and the losses are a blow to his income, which was about $24,000 last year.

His catering work often involves cooking in private homes. "No one really wants you to come to their house and cook right now," he said.

His roommate is a computer programmer who is working from home. "For him, this is a thing on the news ticker," he said. "For me, it's really something to worry about."

Millions of professionals have been able to hunker down in home offices, insulating themselves from the contagion risks posed by commutes and colleagues. But interacting with others is part of the job for retail and food-service workers.

"So much of customer service has to do with, not you being comfortable, but you making them feel comfortable," said Mr. Schaffer, the pawnshop worker, who said he makes around $23,000 a year. "You have to be close to them. You have to shake hands. You have to have this personal-feeling relationship."

Sick leave is a rarity among these jobs. Of the lowest 10% of wage earners, 69% didn't have sick leave last year, according to the Labor Department. That compares with 6% of the top 10% of wage earners lacking the benefit. In the accommodation and food services sector, 55% of workers don't have sick leave.

In the recovery after the 2007-09 recession, hospitality jobs have grown nearly 50% faster than the whole private sector, Labor Department data showed. That eventually pulled in parts of the workforce that were the last to benefit from the expansion: African-Americans, Latinos and those with lower levels of education, who now have near record low unemployment rates.

Wages for low earners grew slowly at the beginning of the expansion, but in the past year grew at a faster rate than higher earners, according to the Atlanta Federal Reserve.

"There's a last-in, first-out problem," Lisa Cook, an economist at Michigan State University, said. "The economic effects of this virus are going to have a substantial impact on low-wage workers, who are disproportionately women, African-Americans and Latinos, and it's going to happen quickly."

Before the crisis hit, things were just getting easier for 41-year-old Erin Schumacher, who worked as a server at two Seattle restaurants, making around $45,000 a year.

She usually had two shifts a week at Etta's, a seafood restaurant, and three or four at Serious Pie, a pizza place with an Amazon worker crowd. She was working enough hours to qualify for health insurance, which kicked in last month, and began saving a little.

Both restaurants closed their doors for at least eight weeks. She already is attempting to work out payment plans for medical bills and rent.

"I started a 401(k) and paid off some credit cards and student loans," she said. "And now it's like, I'm on unemployment."

She applied for a job at Swedish Medical Center to work as a materials handler, charged with moving medical equipment for $23 an hour, she said, adding that is less than she currently makes and doesn't include benefits. She was told she starts March 30.

The travel and hotel business, which employs millions of low-wage workers, has already been hit. After years of stable employment, Dina Paredes is bracing for uncertainty around her paychecks. The 52-year-old housekeeper at a Westin hotel in downtown Los Angeles has cleaned about 14 rooms per shift for the past eight years. As the hotel's occupancy dropped this month, she and other colleagues have been transitioned to "on-call" status. In the past week, she hasn't worked a single day, and she isn't paid unless she gets work.

"Of course it is concerning," the mother of four said through a translator for Unite Here Local 11, the union that represents the hotel workers. "I have family. I have bills I have to pay."

More white-collar employees working from home means customers aren't riding in taxis, ordering coffee or buying lunch. And they can now take care of their own pets during the day.

Dog-walking service NYC Pooch suspended operations Tuesday and has laid off its staff of about 50 people, said co-founder Shane McEvoy.

When work started to dwindle last week, Mr. McEvoy started giving employees the option of being laid off, so that they could tap unemployment benefits. He said most employees took him up on the offer, because they will be paid more in jobless benefits than they would earn with a few walks a week.

Mr. McEvoy said employees start at New York City's $15 an hour minimum wage and earn commissions. In an interview, he choked up when he said he was unable to keep employees.

"It all comes down to what cash you have on hand," he said. "Everyone would love to keep people. The fact is, it's not possible." He said he tried to find low-interest loans to keep the business afloat but has struggled to secure financing.

Tyler Dziendziel, of Wyandotte, Mich., feared he would lose about half his income when the NBA and NHL suspended games. One of his two jobs is working security at Detroit's Little Caesars Arena. Mr. Dziendziel, 24, began to debate whether he should pay rent on his mobile home or pay for repairs for a vehicle he needs to do his other job, arranging store displays for Frito-Lay products.

But he received good news this week when he was told team owners would pay him and other arena workers for scheduled shifts through April. "I'm really happy I'll be getting paid and able to keep up with my bills," said Mr. Dziendziel, a member of the United for Respect worker advocacy group.

---

Chip Cutter contributed to this article.



Document J000000020200321eg3l0003g



REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Leaderless on the Economy

884 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A14
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

A tumultuous week ended Friday with another slide in financial markets, despite multiple constructive actions by the Federal Reserve and the promise of trillions in cash from Congress. Perhaps investors sense that their leaders in Washington are throwing money at the problem without explaining why or how.

The Trump Administration does now seem to have a good team tackling the health threat from the coronavirus. Vice President Mike Pence is leading a daily briefing that lays out the steps the Administration is taking to slow the virus spread and cope with its medical consequences. The experts are offering a rationale for their policies and some guidance for how Americans should behave. The current shutdown strategy will need to shift to Phase Two soon to avoid large-scale economic damage, but at least we know the why and how.

---

The same can't be said for efforts to address the economic fallout, which is growing by the hour and may soon be unsustainable. The White House message so far has been that the government will spend huge sums and that will solve everything. The markets clearly don't believe it, and why should they since nobody has explained what the current problem is and what, specifically, they want to do about it.

The Fed has been energetic this week in rolling out new authorities to grease the plumbing of the financial system. A guarantee for commercial paper and money-market funds reprises tools from the 2008-2009 panic. Regulators had told us money-funds would never again be a problem, but apparently not.

The Fed is also back-stopping muni-bond funds, which have also been showing signs of stress. Investors had piled into munis to get tax-free yield as the Fed kept interest rates so low for so long. The Treasury has used its Exchange Stabilization Fund to float these guarantees, and that makes sense.

What's been missing from all this is any explanation for why this is all needed. Fed Chairman Jerome Powell and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have made token media appearances to proclaim that we should all take heart from everything they are doing. But they offer no diagnosis for the economic problem and their prescriptions aren't clear.

Contrast this with the Fed and Treasury handling of the financial panic in 2008. Whether or not you liked TARP, Secretary Hank Paulson and Chairman Ben Bernanke took ownership of the proposal and explained it to the public and Congress. The federal balance sheet needed to be applied to the banking system to prevent runs and reduce the damage to the larger economy. With some fits and starts, the policy restored confidence in the banking system.

The economic problem this time is very different. Federal and state governments have shut down most of the American economy in an attempt to reduce the spread of the coronavirus. This is creating a liquidity crisis in the real economy as businesses close and companies watch their revenues shrink. Government needs to address the liquidity crisis it has created for private business, or this will soon become a solvency panic as companies default on debt and fail, which will turn into a banking crisis.

If anyone has bothered to explain this to the American public, we haven't heard it. Nor have we heard how the Treasury's proposals, slipped out to the public in a sheet of paper, will address it. The Senate GOP proposal, hashed out with the Treasury, was released on Thursday night as a rough outline with a goal of negotiating a deal with Democratic leader Chuck Schumer by Friday night. Who knows what will emerge from that scrum?

The White House and Treasury should have come up with a plan and then explained what they want and why. Instead, Mr. Mnuchin has turned into a backroom negotiator on Capitol Hill. He looks from our vantage point to be settling for what Congress will accept rather than what needs to be done to rescue the economy from what could become a deep recession.

At least Treasury has come around to realizing it needs a facility to provide liquidity for companies. But as we write this, Mr. Mnuchin was still insisting that Treasury have control of most of the money to be able to ladle out directly to companies it wants to help.

This is a recipe for picking winners and losers, and thus for bitter political fights and months of ugly headlines charging favoritism. The far better answer is for Treasury to use money from Congress to replenish the Exchange Stabilization Fund to back the Fed in creating a facility or special-purpose vehicles under Section 13(3) to lend the money to all comers. The Fed can charge a non-concessionary rate, but the vehicles should be open to those who think they need the money, not merely to those Treasury decides are worthy. The looming liquidity crisis is simply too great for that kind of bureaucratic, politicized decision-making.

We're hoping for the best to emerge from Congress this weekend like white smoke from the Vatican. But whatever they decide, someone will have to do more to explain it to Americans and the markets than wave from the balcony like a new pope.

Document J000000020200321eg3l00019





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Mexican Border Crossings Limited

By Michelle Hackman in Washington and Juan Montes in Mexico City 
545 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A5
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The U.S. and Mexico agreed to curtail travel across their shared 2,000-mile border, allowing trade and workers to continue crossing but limiting most other travelers, including migrants, in response to the coronavirus pandemic.

President Trump announced the move Friday, saying it was necessary to slow the spread of Covid-19, the illness caused by the virus, across North America and "reduce the mass global migration that would badly deplete the health-care resources needed for our people."

"Left unchecked, this would cripple our immigration system, overwhelm our health-care system and severely damage our national security," Mr. Trump said.

The new restrictions, which mirror for the Canadian border, were set to take effect Friday at midnight. The U.S. has more than 10,000 cases of coronavirus confirmed, and 150 deaths, while Mexico has detected 164 cases and reported one death.

Chad Wolf, the acting Homeland Security secretary, said the administration aims to end casual travel across the border, but will continue to allow essential travel -- including the movement of goods or medical workers. U.S. lawmakers had pressed the administration to permit entry for seasonal workers, many of whom do farm labor and most of whom come from Mexico.

Countries across Europe, Asia and Latin America have shut land borders and reduced international flights. The State Department issued a world-wide Level 4 travel advisory, its highest level, encouraging Americans abroad to return to the U.S. or shelter in place.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that Mexico was discussing whether to stop accepting flights from Europe. Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard at a later news conference said Mexico is opposed to such a measure and that one possible solution is for Mexico to establish restrictions for boarding of inbound flights.

Trump administration officials said that in addition to slowing travel through ports of entry, the government will immediately begin turning back migrants who cross the border illegally, including those claiming asylum, without processing them inside U.S. border patrol stations or detention centers.

Border Patrol agents on Friday had begun quickly turning back Mexican adults after taking fingerprints and processing their information on laptops in the field. The arrested migrants will be repatriated at the nearest port of entry.

Mr. Ebrard has said Mexico would be obliged to take all Mexicans, who he said are the largest nationality trying to reach the U.S. illegally. He also said Mexico will maintain a program that allows mostly Central American asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their proceedings are adjudicated in the U.S. He said migrants from other nations wouldn't be accepted.

Mexico has already agreed to take more than 60,000 asylum seekers who were sent there while awaiting their U.S. proceedings. Mr. Wolf suggested migrants from other nations would be flown back to their home countries, but didn't say how that would happen amid global travel restrictions.

The U.S. restrictions rely on a provision of public-health law that allows immigration officials to deny entry to foreigners who pose a risk of spreading infectious diseases.

---

Alicia A. Caldwell and Robbie Whelan contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200321eg3l0005t





U.S. News: Battered Towns Gearing Up for Flood Season

By Joe Barrett 
896 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Corrections & Amplifications

Simon Atadoga attends Minnesota State University in Moorhead, Minn. A U.S. News article on Saturday about communities preparing for flooding season incorrectly said he attends the University of Minnesota.

(WSJ March 23, 2020)

(END)

Volunteers streamed last week into Sandbag Central in Fargo, N.D., where a machine known as the spider can fill up to 120 sandbags a minute. Working in groups of 70, they made and stacked about 232,000 sandbags to prepare for flooding on the Red River of the North.

This year, they had a new addition: hand sanitizer, washing stations and gloves.

Still reeling from last year's historic floods, river cities in the Great Plains and central U.S. are preparing for another active flood season in the middle of the unfolding new coronavirus pandemic.

Last year's flood season, one of the wettest on record, inflicted $20 billion in damage and crop losses across 19 states, according to a recent analysis by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

On Thursday, NOAA issued a new spring flood forecast, which predicted moderate to major flooding in 23 states from the Northern Plains to the Gulf Coast. The most significant flood potential are in parts of North and South Dakota and Minnesota.

Farther south, in Gretna, La., near New Orleans, the pandemic already is approaching a crisis stage. With malls, stores and restaurants closed and hospitals concerned about their capacity to deal with patients in the coming weeks, Mayor Belinda C. Constant said she can only hope the city will have the resources to deal with flooding.

"We're just praying every day that we don't end up in a state of anarchy," she said.

While this year's flooding isn't expected to be as dire as last year's, cities are in uncharted territory as they make plans to deal with flooding along with a pandemic that has created a national state of emergency.

Robert Gallagher, mayor of Bettendorf, Iowa, and co-chairman of the Mississippi River Cities and Towns Initiative, said in a press call Thursday that the group of nearly 100 mayors is working together with federal authorities to ensure they have the resources for first responders needed to tackle what he called a double disaster of flooding and Covid-19.

"We have concerns as we move into the possible floods and storms that those first responders will have an increased need for supplies," such as masks and full protective gear, he said.

Mr. Gallagher said the coming flood season also would require new protocols at shelters. Those showing signs of the virus will be sheltered separately from the rest of the population, who would be asked to observe social distancing.

Sean Dowse, mayor of Red Wing, Minn., said preparations can go only so far with the uncertainty of the virus.

"Right now, Red Wing is ready for disaster," he said. "We have the personal protective equipment, we have the personnel in place. What will happen in two weeks, we have no idea, because what will come down the road to us could be a surprise and we'll have to be flexible going forward."

In its Thursday forecast, NOAA said above-average temperatures and precipitation are expected for much of the middle of the country. With soils already saturated, any heavy storms could bring additional flooding.

Areas at greatest risk for major and moderate flooding include the upper and middle Mississippi River basins, the Missouri River basin and the Red River of the North, NOAA said.

On the Missouri River, a mild winter allowed the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to close almost all the levee breaches on the main stem of the river that were opened during a devastating storm in March 2019. One levee was so damaged that the Corps will rebuild it entirely in coming weeks.

Coronavirus won't stop the work. "It's hard to be more socially distant than a guy in a bulldozer out working on his own," said Bret Budd, chief of the Corps' system restoration team.

Grafton, Ill., at the confluence of the Illinois and Mississippi rivers, was one of the hardest hit towns by last year's flooding. This year's less-dire flood forecast offered little comfort to Mayor Rick Eberlin.

"We don't expect the flooding to be as bad as last year," he said. "But with the Covid virus, we think the economic impact will be even worse than last year. Our bars and restaurants are closed. Our town is virtually a ghost town."

In Fargo, officials are preparing for what could be the fourth-worst flood on record. The current forecast says the Red River has a 10% chance of reaching that level.

Simon Atadoga spent about two hours on his 21st birthday last week shoveling sand into sandbags in the city's Sandbag Central, since all the spots at the spider had been taken by other volunteers.

The Nigerian accounting and business major at the University of Minnesota in Moorhead, just across the river from Fargo, said the work was demanding but it didn't bother him.

"It was a lot of fun," he said. "I did not feel the hard work because I had a lot of conversations and got to meet new people."



Document J000000020200321eg3l0005q



U.S. News: Jobless Claims Soar as Virus Shuts Businesses

By Sarah Chaney and Eric Morath 
374 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

An unparalleled number of Americans filed for unemployment benefits this week as the coronavirus pandemic shut down businesses and left many people without a job, economists say.

State-level anecdotes suggest applications for unemployment benefits -- a proxy for layoffs -- could hit more than 2 million in next Thursday's Labor Department report, the largest weekly increase in jobless claims and the highest level on record, according to a note from Goldman Sachs.

A panel of economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal projected that 875,000 new jobless claims would be filed for the week ending Saturday. That would easily exceed the record 695,000 claims filed in the week ended Oct. 2, 1982.

Claims had been trending near a 50-year low for the past 12 months. In the week ended March 7, 211,000 new claims were filed. Last week, the figure rose to 281,000.

States and localities have been ordering businesses, such as restaurants and bars, to temporarily close to protect against the spread of new coronavirus, immediately hitting parts of the economy. A wave of workers rushing to claim unemployment benefits followed, and many states reported the largest increases in claims they have ever seen.

Ohio released updated figures on Friday morning showing jobless claims rose to nearly 140,000 through Thursday, compared with about 5,000 for the same period last week. By noon Thursday, New York's website to register for benefits had about 200,000 logins. The state's Labor Department website is averaging more than 250,000 logins each day, a 400% increase over the normal average.

States continued releasing unemployment-claims figures despite a request from the Trump administration to refrain before the publication of national weekly U.S. jobless claims by the Labor Department on Thursdays.

A Labor Department spokesperson said state data are regularly embargoed until the national numbers are published on Thursday mornings.

Asking states to withhold claims reports "strikes me as being really unusual," said Keith Hall, a Republican economist who served as commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics under President George W. Bush and later as director of the Congressional Budget Office.

Document J000000020200321eg3l0001n





EXCHANGE --- Regulators Cut Banks Slack on Bad Loans

By Margot Patrick and Patricia Kowsmann 
249 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Banking regulators in Europe said they would be flexible about how lenders account for loans turning sour due to the coronavirus crisis, to protect banks from burning through capital because of delayed loan repayments.

The move is a relief for lenders, who for days have been lobbying regulators to ease how they recognize potential losses on a new crop of unpaid loans.

The Bank of England and the European Central Bank on Friday indicated banks should consider the virus a temporary shock and take government support measures into account when marking their loan books, rather than taking a worst-case view of its impact.

The ECB said that adding regulatory flexibility will "allow banks to fully benefit from guarantees and moratoriums put in place by public authorities to tackle the current distress."

Banks and governments across Europe have announced relief packages for hard-hit households and businesses, allowing them to defer debt payments for a few months.

Some countries, starting with Italy, have imposed a moratorium on certain payment obligations, particularly for mortgage owners and small companies, to ease a liquidity crunch they might be facing. With many countries under a lockdown, shops, restaurants and other businesses have been shut, but they still need to pay bills and workers.

The ECB had already signaled that it would provide some flexibility to banks, including on targets they currently have to meet on writing down nonperforming loans.

Document J000000020200321eg3l0001d





EXCHANGE --- The Trade-Off Between Economy and Health --- This isn't the first time we've struggled to strike the balance. Lessons from past crises.

By Greg Ip, Danny Dougherty and Anthony DeBarros 
2,475 words
21 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The coronavirus has unleashed a massive economic shock on the U.S. and the world. It began with disruptions to supply chains and restrictions on travel and is now rapidly expanding via spontaneous and government-imposed "social distancing" measures such as closing schools and confining regional populations to their homes. Entire industries are shutting down. It is "a sudden stop to the global economy," said Mohamed El-Erian, an adviser to German insurer Allianz.

There is no clear historical precedent for the scale and nature of this shock. Some economists see U.S. output falling by more in the coming quarter than in the worst quarter of the 2008-09 recession. Nonetheless, previous episodes of pandemics, disasters and crises offer clues about what to expect, how policy makers make matters better or worse and the likely long-term consequences.

A few lessons stand out. First, governments and the public always face a trade-off between economic stability and public health and safety. The more they prioritize health and safety, the bigger the near-term cost to the economy, and vice versa.

Second, at the outset of the disaster, policy makers are coping with enormous uncertainty. Early responses are often timid or off-target and more sweeping action is delayed by political disagreement.

"We learned that we need to prioritize speed, think in tranches, be visible and worry about how to pay for it later," said Tim Adams, who served in the Treasury Department during 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina and is now president of the Institute of International Finance. "If you wait to craft the perfect response, you'll lose valuable time and you'll miss something no matter what."

Third, disasters often create permanent changes to habits, and the most affected industries and regions can take years to recover. New Orleans' population has steadily regained ground since falling by half after Hurricane Katrina but isn't yet back to its prestorm level. But for society as a whole, the scars heal remarkably quickly. Humans are immensely adaptable.

The Spanish Flu

While the coronavirus isn't a flu virus, the pandemic resembles the influenza pandemics of the 20th century, in that it is highly infectious and relatively lethal. The deadliest was the Spanish flu in 1918, which infected at least 500 million people world-wide (more than a quarter of the Earth's population) and killed 50 million or more, including 675,000 in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Yet the economic impact was surprisingly mild. The National Bureau of Economic Research says a recession began in August 1918 and ran through the next March. The flu probably wasn't the cause. In a 2006 paper for Canada's Department of Finance, Steven James and Tim Sargent found little trace of the pandemic in international trade, retail sales, railroad passenger traffic and stock prices. They saw some effect on industrial production, which fell sharply in October and November but that was in part due to falling defense production as World War I drew to a close. They put the pandemic's effect at a 0.5% decline in annual output.

There are likely several reasons. Far fewer people worked in jobs that required close social contact. Farming, fishing and forestry accounted for 16% of American occupations in 1910 compared with 0.3% in 2004, according to Messrs. James and Sargent. Few workers had sick leave, and unemployment insurance didn't exist. Thus, workers who were sick or at risk could seldom afford to stay home.

The second is that governments, many preoccupied with war, didn't put the same weight on stopping the epidemic as they do now. The federal government had little formal role fighting infectious disease. President Woodrow Wilson never publicly mentioned the epidemic, John Barry writes in "The Great Influenza: The Story of the Deadliest Pandemic in History." Chicago's public health commissioner flatly rejected closing businesses, Mr. Barry wrote, quoting him as saying: "It is our duty to keep the people from fear. Worry kills more people than the epidemic."

Cities that took that attitude saw higher death tolls, according to a2007 study by Richard J. Hatchett, Carter E. Mecher, and Marc Lipsitch. Philadelphia waited 16 days before restricting social gatherings, even allowing a parade to go ahead. St. Louis took just two days. The daily death rate from the epidemic peaked at a level five or more times higher in Philadelphia than in St. Louis.

The lesson: The more short-term economic pain Americans are willing to endure, the more lives they will save.

Asian Flu Pandemic

The 1957 Asian flu pandemic killed more than 1 million world-wide and 100,000 in the U.S., although some estimates are lower. It emerged in China in February, reached the U.S. in early June and then spread explosively when schools opened in September. On Oct. 7, 43% of Manhattan students and 11% of teachers were absent because of illness, and by the end of October, more than half of all counties nationwide were experiencing epidemics, according to a study bythe Center for Biosecurity of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

As in 1918, the pandemic coincided with a recession, but that was because the Federal Reserve had been raising interest rates to counter rising inflation. Messrs. James and Sargent found a "very small" impact from the epidemic on growth, mostly from absenteeism.

Also as in 1918, the lack of widespread social distancing may explain why the epidemic had so little economic impact. State and federal officials made vaccination, which was unavailable in 1918, their first line of defense. But only enough vaccine for 17% of the population had been produced by the time the epidemic peaked, and it was at most 60% effective, so it did little to mitigate the pandemic, the Pittsburgh study found. The authorities rejected social distancing, most schools remained open and many people weren't sick enough to require hospitalization.

The 1957, 1968 and 2009 flu pandemics were highly contagious but much less lethal than the Spanish flu and, it appears, Covid-19. Those experiences may have contributed to initial public complacency over the coronavirus. Governments are now willing to take far more economically disruptive remedies than in those prior episodes.

September 11 Attack

When al Qaeda terrorists flew jetliners into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, they delivered an unprecedented shock to the nation's sense of security and its economy. Commercial aviation was grounded for three days. The destruction to lower Manhattan closed the stock markets. Heightened security slowed trade with Canada and Mexico to a crawl. Nervous shoppers stayed away from stores and malls.

Economists predicted the attacks would tip a slowing economy into recession. People would be more reluctant to fly, work in a tall building or base their office in New York City.

But the U.S. bounced back remarkably quickly. It was later determined that a recession triggered by the technology bust had begun six months before the attacks and ended two months afterward.

One reason was the aggressive policy response. The day the markets reopened, the Fed and its counterparts in the eurozone, Canada and Sweden all slashed rates. Low rates inspired auto manufacturers to roll out zero percent financing, sending sales skyrocketing. Fears of terrorism faded when new attacks didn't materialize.

Within two weeks Congress approved $40 billion for emergency rebuilding and defense and $5 billion in cash assistance and up to $10 billion in loan guarantees to airlines. Both parties agreed more stimulus was needed but negotiations soon bogged down over its composition. When a package worth $51 billion over one year and $94 billion over five years finally passed in March, a recovery was already well under way.

The lessons for the present go only so far. Back then, Americans were urged to defeat al Qaeda by continuing to work, play and shop. Today, they are being urged to defeat the coronavirus by staying home. Then, interest rates were high enough that zero-interest car loans seemed like the deal of the century. Not anymore. Then, the shock was confined to the U.S. and short-lived; today, it is global and could last weeks or months, so no one can expect overseas strength to cushion their downturn.

Still American resilience prevailed. People quickly adjusted to heightened security. Airline traffic and demand for New York office space returned to their pre-attack levels over the next several years.

SARS in Hong Kong

Hong Kong's experience with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 was a dress rehearsal for the coronavirus. The virus first appeared in China, which tried to cover it up and then had to resort to drastic quarantines to quash it. It probably entered Hong Kong via a Chinese doctor who checked into a hotel there in February 2003.

Initially, the government played down the outbreak. By late March it broke out in an apartment complex and as news spread, social distancing arose almost spontaneously.

"Fears of the SARS virus took root in the whole city," Alan Siu and Y.C. Richard Wong, economists at the University of Hong Kong, wrote in a 2004 article. "Face masks were selling briskly and could be seen everywhere. Public places were disinfected several times a day. People washed their hands much more frequently and avoided going out to crowded places. Restaurants, shops, cinemas, and other entertainment venues were deserted."

The government eventually closed the schools and ordered anyone confirmed or suspected of SARS to self-isolate.

SARS sent the economy, with its dependence on travel and tourism, reeling. Between March and May, daily passenger arrivals and departures plummeted 80% while the hotel occupancy rate plunged from 80% to below 20%, Messrs. Siu and Wong reported. Unemployment jumped and gross domestic product shrank in the second quarter.

The social distancing had its desired effect: The breakout was contained by late April. The economy bounced back rapidly, without significant direct government support.

SARS's most important lesson for the coronavirus episode is the imprint it left on the collective psyche. When new epidemics emerge, Hong Kong's airport is quick to check arriving passengers' temperatures. Shortly after the territory reported its first coronavirus cases in late January, it moved to restrict travel from mainland China and closed schools, government offices, major tourist attractions, libraries and swimming pools. Surgical masks became ubiquitous, which, like mass vaccination, helped prevent infectious people from spreading the disease.

So far, that has held infections down. Nonetheless, the economic fallout has been just as bad as in 2003. The government has responded with significant fiscal stimulus.

The Last Financial Crisis

The 2008-2009 financial crisis wasn't a natural disaster, and didn't directly kill anyone. Yet like the coronavirus, it began as an isolated shock that soon engulfed the global economy and forced policy makers to respond creatively.

At first, the Fed lowered interest rates, and encouraged banks to borrow from its discount window. In early 2008, President Bush and Congress authorized $168 billion to send $600 checks to most individuals.

By March the crisis reached the core of the financial system. The Fed and Treasury bailed out Bear Stearns using emergency authority. That September, Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. Then, the Fed and Treasury bailed out Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the insurer American International Group. After the stock market cratered, Congress approved the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, which the Treasury used to inject funds into banks, securities markets and car companies. In early 2009, newly elected President Obama ushered through a $787 billion fiscal stimulus plan.

The financial crisis caused the worst recession since the Great Depression but thanks to the Fed, TARP and stimulus, it didn't become another depression. It also left policy makers with a reservoir of tools and tactics that they are now resurrecting.

The crisis also left a legacy of deeply divided politics. Though TARP turned a profit for the government, much of the public saw it as a bailout for the very people who caused the crisis, sentiments which gave rise to the Tea Party on the right and Occupy Wall Street on the left. Those views persist, which President Trump and both parties in Congress must navigate as they contemplate bailouts and other measures to combat a new shock that some say is on a par with the financial crisis.

Earthquake and Tsunami

The earthquake and accompanying tsunami that struck Japan's Tohoku region in March 2011 left 19,000 people dead or missing and triggered a meltdown at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Swiss Re ranks it the costliest natural disaster in history, at $239 billion. The region supplied intermediate parts to manufacturers and the resulting shortage in parts caused the shutdown of plants around the world.

The initial economic response was typical of disasters: The Japanese government spent heavily on rescue and reconstruction, which helped propel a recovery in the economy. The government poured resources into rebuilding the region with the result that its manufacturing production had recovered to its pre-disaster level by 2014.

Hiroyuki Nakata, an economist at the University of Tokyo, says the response worked as intended in the short term, but less well over the long run. "The size of the package may well have been too big -- the subsidies let zombie companies survive."

Responding to public fear of radiation, Japan took all of its nuclear generators off line over the next few years. Nuclear power's contribution to Japanese electricity generation sank from 25% in 2010 to 5% in 2018. Whether this was scientifically justifiable is questionable. A study by academics Matthew J. Neidell, Shinsuke Uchida and Marcella Veronesi last year found the resulting rise in electricity prices led to less home heating in cold weather, causing 1,280 deaths from 2011-2014. Yet they note no direct deaths have been attributed to radiation exposure, though they cite projections that radiation will eventually cause 130 deaths from cancer.

The disaster illustrates the tensions between balancing the public's legitimate aversion to harm against the known consequences and likely economic costs. Until recently, the coronavirus seemed to present the opposite risk: The public wasn't taking the threat seriously enough, forcing the government to take more disruptive steps, to limit human interaction, while seeking to offset the resulting economic cost through fiscal and monetary policy.

As in all these past disasters, the coronavirus pandemic confronts governments, business and the public with crippling uncertainty and painful trade-offs. The main difference is that this is on a scale and breadth never seen in living memory.



Document J000000020200321eg3l0005z



Americas
Repression in the Time of Coronavirus

By Mary Anastasia O'Grady 
897 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A15
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Given the credibility that President Obama and Vice President Joe Biden lent to Cuban propaganda while they were in office, I half-expected to see them enjoying spring break in Varadero Beach last week.

The regime said Friday it will close its borders to foreigners starting March 24. But until now Havana has been trying to make lemonade out of the coronavirus by advertising Cuban holidays as an escape from the pandemic. The independent Cuban news outlet 14ymedio reported last week that regime tour companies were boasting about the island's state-of-the-art health-care system, saying it's capable of taking on the contagious virus. This is known as being hard up for hard currency.

Cuba already has been denounced for treating its medical workers like chattel when it sends them abroad to earn money for the regime and indoctrinate populations. But now it's doubling down on the scheme, claiming that Havana is stepping up to help the world in a time of crisis.

It also maintains it makes magic in its pharmaceutical labs. Doctors around the world have long relied on interferon as an immune-system booster for treating viral infections and other illnesses. But now Cuba is using its army of global influencers to promote claims that its production of a type of the drug is the cutting-edge of science.

Italian tourists have experienced a different reality. A 61-year-old from the Lombardy region of Italy died of the virus on Wednesday at Havana's Pedro Kuri Institute for Tropical Diseases, one of the island's best hospitals. Another Italian corona patient, confined in the same facility, complained bitterly on social media about no toilet paper, no spoons for soup, no news about her condition and no communication with doctors.

In a country where soap and water are luxuries, ramping up traffic from Europe was a precarious strategy. But desperate times spawn crackpot measures, and the Cuban economy is skating dangerously close to the edge. The regime needs dollars to maintain the police state that has kept it in power for six decades. Its problem today, in a word, is oil.

Cuba hasn't done well on its own since Fidel Castro took power in 1959. It was a dependent of the Soviet Union until 1991. Havana was then forced to legalize the dollar and microenterprises and let foreign investors take minority stakes in regime companies. But the ruling elite didn't like it.

The Castros found a new sugar daddy in Venezuela's Hugo Chavez, who came to power in 1999. A symbiotic relationship blossomed: Cuba would exchange its comparative advantage in repression for Venezuelan petroleum products. At the deal's peak, from 2010-12, Havana received some $4 billion annually in oil subsidies from Venezuela.

But the party wasn't to last. Venezuela was pumping 3.4 million barrels a day before chavismo. Output is now around 750,000 barrels a day -- and falling -- thanks to poor well management, a scarcity of skilled labor and a collapse of investment.

Caracas has been eating big discounts because it's difficult for buyers to get around U.S. sanctions. Russia's Rosneft, formerly Venezuela's key customer, is said to be put off by all that effort. Other former buyers can get heavy crude more easily from Saudi Arabia. With the international oil-price swoon, tar-heavy Venezuelan crude has plummeted to between $10 and $15 a barrel.

Venezuelan storage capacity on land and at sea is full up, so it is sending the excess to Cuba. This has boosted daily shipments back to 100,000 barrels a day from lows of around 20,000 before fall 2019. The Castro regime has been filling its storage tanks and selling what it can on the black market.

Yet more than crude, Havana needs gasoline, diesel and gas oil for electricity production, which Venezuela used to provide but no longer has the infrastructure to produce. Venezuela resorts to swaps when it can, but the terms are terrible. So despite the uptick in crude supplies, Cuba is still limping badly.

Meanwhile the effects of the coronavirus shutdown "are likely to be catastrophic for Venezuela," Francisco Monaldi, an energy economist at Rice University, told me in a telephone interview last week. Running water and soap aren't readily available in hospitals or even in many homes. Gasoline shortages make getting imported food to cities outside the capital difficult. Venezuela is heavily dependent on some $3 billion in annual remittances from citizens who fled, mostly to other South American countries, in recent years. If their jobs dry up in a deep regional recession, so will the flow of money. This will put more pressure on Venezuelan leadership to end subsidies to Cuba.

What's more, it may be necessary to cap wells, and that's unlikely to be temporary. Experts say it won't be easy to restart them when human and financial capital is in short supply.

All this explains Havana's efforts to use the pandemic to boost European tourism and to create the illusion that it specializes in advanced medical care. It's a sick joke.

---

Write to O'Grady@wsj.com

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Cuba Avoids an Honest Coronavirus Policy" -- WSJ March 30, 2020)

Document J000000020200323eg3n00008





Bookshelf
The Republic Of Samsung

By Thomas A. Bass 
1,053 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A15
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Samsung Rising

By Geoffrey Cain

(Currency, 391 pages, $29)

Geoffrey Cain's "Samsung Rising" reads like a dynastic thriller, rolling through three generations of family intrigue, embezzlement, bribery, corruption, prostitution and other bad behavior that seems to pass for standard operating procedure in the Korean business world. More than half of the country's 10 largest corporate groups, Mr. Cain tells us, are led by convicted criminals, although all of them have received presidential pardons, and several of them, including Samsung's current chairman, Lee Kun-hee, have been pardoned twice.

The Korean national spy agency works with Samsung, Samsung works with the government, and everyone makes out well in the virtuous circle of cross-shareholding known as the Republic of Samsung. In the meantime, South Korea's most valuable company, a $300 billion behemoth that accounts for a fifth of the country's exports, keeps inventing new products that we gobble up by the millions.

"Samsung is the most bizarro place I've ever seen," says a former American executive at the company. Mr. Cain notes the irony that the most prominent company in South Korea is infused with the nationalism and militaristic structure of the North. The company is run by a revered leader whose messages are broadcast throughout its factories and reproduced in everything from comic books to a Samsung-owned newspaper. During the company's annual summer festival, Mr. Cain writes, drill teams line up to form a punching fist and raise placards spelling out the word "Victory" -- just like their northern cousins do.

Like many stories about successful entrepreneurs, Samsung's begins with a young man dropping out of college. Lee Byung-chul, also known as B.C. Lee, founded Samsung in 1938, in what was then a Japanese colony. He failed at trading rice before moving into fresh vegetables and dried fish. As a university student in Tokyo, Lee had admired how the Japanese did business through zaibatsu -- interconnected corporate cliques with strong ties to the military and state. Lee borrowed this structure to develop what became known in Korea as chaebols.

Lee drew on family resources to build a sugar refinery. He moved into trucking, wool spinning and insurance. He started a university and a newspaper. By the time he died in 1987, he was the richest man in South Korea and a "symbol of South Korean corruption," says Mr. Cain, for having bribed his way into obtaining a wide variety of state-controlled licenses and contracts.

In November 1983, Chairman Lee welcomed into one of his factories in Suwon, a grimy, industrial city south of Seoul, a 28-year-old American entrepreneur named Steve Jobs. Dreaming about building a tablet computer, Jobs was looking for memory chips and displays. Samsung at the time was making cut-rate TVs and microwaves, but it was also getting started in making memory chips, and Jobs suspected they could build anything he wanted. He and Lee hit it off, and Samsung would eventually become the major supplier of computer chips, displays and other components used in Apple's iPads and smartphones.

Before his death, Lee handed the company to his third son, Lee Kun-hee, or K.H. Lee. Lee Kun-hee was a playboy better known for having a private race track for his Porsches until one day in 1993 when he had a kind of corporate epiphany. Gathering the company's top executives into the presidential suite at the Kempinski Hotel in Frankfurt, where he was living at the time, Lee delivered an eight-hour speech and urged them to "change everything except your wife and children" and embrace Samsung's new philosophy of "perpetual crisis."

Samsung's "quasi-religious corporate culture," as Mr. Cain calls it, began opening to the West. Samsung imported Madison Avenue advertising executives, California designers and Texas marketers. It launched Hollywood initiatives to improve the company's dismal image. The company began shifting from electronics to software and lifestyle. In this world of interchangeable technology, where one cellphone works pretty much like any other, design becomes the product itself.

Samsung went through a dark period in the late 1990s. Asian markets collapsed in 1997, Samsung Motors went bust and Lee Kun-hee was convicted of making $32 million in "donations" to government officials. To bring in cash, Samsung began selling flip phones in bulk to Sprint and other carriers. This is when the sales and marketing people in Richardson, Texas, began attending corporate meetings that were "more like a Communist Party self-criticism session," as Mr. Cain puts it. The company was so driven by "fear of failure and loss of face" that good sales figures in the U.S. were thought to reflect badly on bosses back in Korea.

By 2010, the year before his death, Jobs was threatening "thermonuclear war" on Android, the operating system used by Samsung's phones. Furious that a major supplier was releasing its own competing products, Jobs launched one of the longest-running patent-infringement suits in corporate history, which ended seven years later in a legal draw, with Apple winning in the U.S. courts and Samsung winning in Korea, Japan and England.

By this point in the story, Mr. Cain's wonderfully informative book begins to fray into anecdotes about various product launches and celebrities pouting over promotional tie-ins. With Samsung shipping 85 million smartphones a quarter, it could buy endorsements from Jay-Z, Kanye, Ellen DeGeneres or anyone else.

Lee Kun-hee has not been seen in public since he suffered a heart attack in 2014. His son, Lee Jae-yong, is tapped to succeed his father, but the family is a minority shareholder in Samsung's 50 companies -- or is it 60 or more, as some sources say? -- and Lee Jae-yong may not be able to summon the alliances required to keep this sprawling enterprise in family hands. He and his sisters are also facing more than $6 billion in estate taxes, not to mention his own five-year prison sentence for bribery and embezzlement, which is currently being appealed. Stay tuned for the next installment in this long-running drama.

---

Mr. Bass is the author of three books on Asian politics and culture, including "Vietnamerica" and "The Spy Who Loved Us."

Document J000000020200323eg3n0000a





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Germany Outlines Emergency Budget

By Bojan Pancevski 
285 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

BERLIN -- The German government is set to adopt fiscal measures of as much as 500 billion euros ($534.9 billion) to help shield Europe's largest economy from the fallout of the pandemic.

Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, who serves as Germany's vice chancellor, will preside over the cabinet meeting on Monday that will draft an emergency budget, officials said, which could be approved by Parliament as early as Wednesday.

The new budget would allow the government to raise borrowing to the tune of 150 billion euros this year and include several hundred billion euros more in loan guarantees to help businesses secure liquidity amid a coronavirus shutdown.

The package would cause the federal government to post a budget deficit for the first time since 2014, in a stark reversal of its longstanding policy of fiscal restraint.

The series of bills could even allow the German government to increase its liabilities beyond the 500 billion euro mark if the country's shutdown extends for longer or causes a sharper downturn than currently expected.

An estimate by Deutsche Bank last week showed the country's gross domestic product could fall by as much as a quarter in the three months to the end of June.

The move comes after the German government last week ordered all nonessential businesses to close to help limit contagion, and large industrial companies such as the car makers Volkswagen AG and BMW AG closed their factories.

On Sunday, Chancellor Angela Merkel announced a tightening of these measures, including a ban of public gatherings of more than two people, with the exemption of families and people who live in the same household.

Document J000000020200323eg3n0008l





Heard on the Street
Virus Remakes Economic Policy --- Crisis creates consensus favoring bold fiscal moves

By Jon Sindreu 
575 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

The coronavirus crisis has turned into the biggest threat to the global economy at least since 2008. The big difference this time around is that a surprising consensus has emerged about what to do about it.

Indeed, the specific characteristics of the Covid-19 outbreak give it the power to change economic policy forever.

Last week, even the previously cautious European Central Bank U-turned, launching a 750 billion euro ($809 billion) stimulus program that includes the bold possibility of backstopping the eurozone's weakest governments. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve has deployed all the tools developed during the liquidity crunch 12 years ago -- including facilities to support banks and companies and currency swaps with other central banks.

Crucially, this comes amid a wave of spending pledges by governments -- the biggest shift in economic policy since the 1970s, when fiscal stimulus was abandoned as a primary tool to stabilize employment. According to UBS economist Arend Kapteyn, fiscal expansion globally will amount to about 2% of gross domestic product this year, versus 1.7% in 2009.

The plans include ideas considered fringe not long ago: The Trump administration wants to mail $250 billion in checks to Americans. Economists are even putting forward heterodox proposals like having central banks print such checks -- so-called helicopter money -- and giving everyone a basic income.

Arguably, the coronavirus cash crunch isn't nearly as strong a challenge to officials' understanding of economics as 2008 was. Yet the global financial crisis only truly shifted the reach of what central banks could do, not governments. With the International Monetary Fund still embracing theories of "expansionary austerity," the Obama administration's stimulus package met with fierce opposition.

Now, almost all officials and economists seem united in pushing for a new mind-set. What has changed?

Part of it has been brewing for a decade, in which neither inflation nor huge public debts have proved to be the problem that fiscal hawks feared -- dispelling the idea that currency-printing Western governments can ever go bust. Even before the virus hit, President Trump in the U.S. and Prime Minister Boris Johnson in the U.K. had put the lid on austerity policies.

But the change also has to do with what Polish economist Michal Kalecki wrote in his famous 1943 essay "Political Aspects of Full Employment:" A reason why subsidizing consumers is resisted by businesses against their own self-interest is because it goes against the moral principle of "you shall earn your bread in sweat." The coronavirus crisis is special, though, in that it is an external, amoral force that has hit the "real" economy first. Damage to financial markets and indebted consumers -- two groups often seen as suspect by business leaders -- has been a consequence of the crisis, not its cause as in 2008.

To be sure, the announced fiscal stimulus may still not be enough, especially in Europe. There is a risk of replicating the sluggish 2008 postcrisis period if businesses and officials don't back a second round of government support to fight unemployment once the immediate impact on companies is left behind.

On the record of the last two weeks, though, policy makers are suddenly eager to act. Post-1970s economics was already suffering from pre-existing conditions; Covid-19 could be what sends the old orthodoxy to the grave.



page,5043 

Document J000000020200323eg3n0000h



U.S. Prosecutors Step Up Pressure on Maduro Regime

By Christopher M. Matthews, Ian Talley and Aruna Viswanatha 
451 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The U.S. quietly unsealed criminal cases against two former officials at Venezuela's state oil monopoly this month as part of what American officials say is a new round of charges and sanctions against a Maduro government they accuse of systemic corruption, narcotrafficking and stealing billions of dollars in state funds.

Prosecutors have also charged a businessman associated with the subsidiary of the company, Petroleos de Venezuela, SA (PdVSA), for which the officials worked.

Some of the actions have been delayed in part by the coronavirus pandemic. But senior U.S. officials say they are part of a Trump administration effort to double down on its pressure campaign against President Nicolas Maduro's government after failing to deliver on its primary goal of ousting the regime.

Federal prosecutors in Miami, New York and Washington, D.C., are targeting what they allege is vast corruption in the country's beleaguered petroleum sector and currency markets, state-aided narcotrafficking, and money-laundering through Venezuela's military-run emergency food program.

They have charged dozens of defendants -- many of whom have pleaded guilty in U.S. courts -- and are continuing to probe alleged bribery and money laundering involving joint ventures with PdVSA, according to court documents and people familiar with the matter.

On Friday, Miami prosecutors charged Leonardo Santilli, a Venezuelan citizen who controlled several companies working for the joint ventures, with money laundering in Miami and related offenses.

Mr. Santilli's companies allegedly received nearly $150 million from the PdVSA subsidiaries between 2014-2017, according to court documents. More than $100 million of that was allegedly transferred to accounts, trusts and shell companies controlled by him and other Venezuelan individuals, prosecutors allege.

Mr. Santilli allegedly used millions of the funds to bribe senior officials in the Venezuelan military and government on behalf of the joint ventures, according to the court documents, which also allege that employees at Mr. Santilli's companies tracked the payments in a spreadsheet, callingthe transactions "comisiones," or commissions.

Mr. Santilli couldn't be reached to comment. Venezuelan officials didn't respond to a request for comment.

This month, federal judges in Miami also unsealed charges against two state-oil company executives at one the of subsidiaries Mr. Santilli allegedly received money from, Lennys Rangel and Edoardo Orsoni. Both worked at Petrocedeno, a joint venture between PdVSA and French oil giant Total SA and Norway's Equinor ASA. Representatives for Equinor and Total didn't respond to requests for comment.

An attorney for Ms. Rangel didn't respond to a request for comment. An attorney for Mr. Orsoni declined to comment.

Document J000000020200323eg3n0005p





U.S. News: Inmates Freed in Bid to Curb the Outbreak

By Zusha Elinson and Deanna Paul 
808 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Local governments across the U.S. are releasing thousands of inmates in an unprecedented effort to prevent a coronavirus outbreak in crowded jails and prisons.

Jails in California, New York, Ohio, Texas and at least a dozen other states are sending low-level offenders and elderly or sickly inmates home early due to coronavirus fears. At other jails and prisons around the country, officials are banning visitors, restricting inmates' movement and screening staff.

The 2.2 million people behind bars in the country, and the guards who work with them, face unique risks due to the tight spaces in crowded conditions and strained health-care systems, according to experts.

"We're all headed for some dire consequences," said Daniel Vasquez, a former warden of San Quentin and Soledad state prisons in California. "They're in such close quarters -- some double- and triple-celled -- I think it's going to be impossible to stop it from spreading."

Prison staff in Pennsylvania, Michigan, New York and Washington state have tested positive for the virus, resulting in inmate quarantines. In Washington, D.C., a U.S. marshal who works in proximity to new arrestees tested positive for the virus, meaning dozens of defendants headed for jail could have been exposed. Two federal prison staffers have also tested positive.

On Saturday, the first federal inmate tested positive in a Brooklyn, N.Y., facility, according to the Bureau of Prisons. The same day, New York City's Board of Correction, an independent oversight agency, sent a letter to city and state officials urging them to rapidly reduce the jail population, with a focus on people at highest risk of infection, pointing to more than 30 inmates and corrections employees who have tested positive for the virus.

There have been no reported major outbreaks yet, but experts fear thecoronavirus could overwhelm correctional facilities, particularly because there are more inmates than ever in the older demographic that is at greater risk. The number of people 55 or older in state and federal prisons reached 164,000 in 2016, more than tripling from 1999, according to the Pew Charitable Trusts.

"Will they have the staff, the equipment, and the service to treat people?" asked Steve J. Martin, a corrections consultant who serves as a federal monitor for the Rikers Island jail complex in New York City. "And if they don't, are they going to send those folks out to hospitals or where they can get adequate health care?"

To prevent the virus from spreading, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggests separating symptomatic individuals. In correctional facilities, however, that can be "virtually impossible," according to Homer Venters, former chief medical officer for New York City correctional health services.

Many jails and prisons already need to separate numerous types of inmates, he noted, including pretrial and sentenced individuals, men and women, migrant detainees and the mentally ill.

Amy Fettig, deputy director at the American Civil Liberties Union's National Prison Project, said authorities should balance public safety with civil rights, such as access to libraries and recreation, as well as visits with family. "If civil rights are abrogated, it should be based on science and revisited frequently," she said.

Some public-health officials and prisoners' rights advocates have proposed large-scale releases of the incarcerated. In Iran, 54,000 prisoners have been temporarily released to slow the spread of the virus.

In Cleveland, more than 400 inmates have been moved out of the Cuyahoga County Jail via lowered bonds or quickly reached plea deals, resulting in release or transfer to state prison. Judges and prosecutors sought to reassure the public that the nearly 25% reduction in the county jail population didn't mean they were releasing inmates en masse.

"We're not opening up the jail doors and letting prisoners leave," said Brendan Sheehan, administrative judge of the Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court. "We're looking at lower-level nonviolent felons and we're looking at our jail cases who have a higher medical risk."

The goal is to keep inmates further apart and create space for quarantines if necessary, he said.

Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva said he has reduced the jail population from 17,076 to 16,459 since the end of February by asking police to cite and release low-level offenders and by releasing inmates with fewer than 30 days left on their sentences. Arrests in the county -- the most populous in the U.S. -- have dropped to 60 a day from around 300, he said.

"Our population within the jail is a vulnerable population just by virtue of who they are and where they're located," Sheriff Villanueva said at a Monday press conference. "We're protecting that population from potential exposure."

Document J000000020200323eg3n0005s





Heard on the Street
Tobacco's Resilience Is a Temptation

By Carol Ryan 
489 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

It is a dark irony that a respiratory pandemic could pull tobacco stocks out of their three-year funk.

British American Tobacco reiterated its 2020 outlook last week even as many other global companies slashed theirs. The maker of Lucky Strike cigarettes has been largely untouched by the Covid-19 outbreak so far, other than a hit to airports sales.

Cigarette companies have been resilient in previous economic downturns. One study of the 2008 financial crisis by international cancer institute IRCCS found no significant change in U.S. smoking prevalence between 2005 and 2010.

Cigarette stocks were a good place to shelter during the financial crisis. The S&P 500 index dropped 47% from October 2007 through January 2009, roughly double the declines at BAT and Altria.

But investors don't seem to believe that tobacco companies will be as defensive this time. Since the stock market selloff began in the third week of February, global cigarette makers BAT, Imperial Brands, Philip Morris International and Altria have, on average, seen their shares fall roughly in line with the S&P 500.

That may be because sentiment toward cigarette stocks has been exceptionally weak since mid-2017, when U.S. authorities toughened regulations. Or perhaps investors may believe that smokers have a greater incentive than ever to quit given the crisis.

Early signs are that demand for tobacco is stable. In the U.S., the number of cigarettes sold in the four weeks through Feb. 22 fell 3.5% year-over-year, according to data from MSAi, an improvement on steeper declines throughout 2019. True, the latest data predates the rapid escalation in cases in the U.S. of Covid-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. But BAT has also seen no slowdown in purchases in Italy or France, where tobacconists are among the only stores that remain open, alongside supermarkets and pharmacies.

If that trend holds, tobacco's temptations will grow for investors. Valuations are low: Altria and BAT fetch earnings multiples last seen in the early 2000s, when investors worried the tobacco industry would be bankrupted by litigation. Imperial Brands is even cheaper. Average dividend yields are 10%, and high cash generation suggests payouts are safe, except at Imperial where a new chief executive is taking over.

Tobacco names won't be immune to short-term manufacturing and staffing disruptions due to the epidemic. On Thursday, Altria said its chief executive had contracted Covid-19 and is taking medical leave. The company has also closed its Richmond factory after an employee tested positive, but says it has two months of inventory stockpiled.

By far the biggest challenge for business during the pandemic is turning out to be the drop off in sales due to social distancing. With their antisocial products, cigarette companies may be among the few to escape relatively unscathed.



page,5043 

Document J000000020200323eg3n0000c



Marines Will Retool, With an Eye to China

By Michael R. Gordon 
798 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Marine Corps is undertaking its most sweeping transformation in decades, pivoting from a focus on fighting insurgents in the Middle East to developing the ability to hop from island to island in the western Pacific to bottle up the Chinese fleet.

The 10-year plan to revamp the Corps, set to be unveiled this week, follows years of classified U.S. wargames that revealed China's missile and naval forces to be eroding American military advantages in the region.

"China, in terms of military capability, is the pacing threat," Gen. David Berger, the Marine Corps commandant, said in an interview. "If we did nothing, we would be passed."

To reinvent themselves as a naval expeditionary force within budget limits, the Marines plan to get rid of all tanks, cut back on their aircraft and shrink in total numbers from 189,000 to as few as 170,000, Gen. Berger said.

"I have come to the conclusion that we need to contract the size of the Marine Corps to get quality," he said.

The changes are part of a shift by all branches of the armed forces, which are honing new fighting concepts and planning to spend billions of dollars on what the Pentagon projects will be intensified competition with China and Russia.

Nearly 20 years ago, U.S. troops found themselves battling militants in Iraq and Afghanistan who used suicide car bombs and roadside explosives but had no air force or heavy mechanized forces.

While the U.S. focused on the Middle East, however, China and Russia worked on systems to thwart the American ability to assemble forces near their regions and command them in battle. If war broke out, U.S. officials concluded, China could fire hundreds of missiles at U.S. and allies' air bases, ports and command centers throughout the Pacific, jam the U.S. military's GPS, attack satellite systems and use its air defenses to keep U.S. warplanes at bay.

A sobering assessment of how U.S. forces would match up against rivals was prepared by the Pentagon's Office of Net Assessment and the Rand Corp. and presented to then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis in 2017.

The new strategy faces some significant obstacles. One is that the defense budget is more likely to stay flat or contract over the next several years. Another question is whether Washington will be able to concentrate on the Chinese and Russian threats given persistent tensions with Iran.

Some retired Marines caution that too heavy a focus on China may make the Corps less flexible in dealing with conflicts that might erupt in the Middle East. "I think it is a mistake to organize yourself in a way to go after a specific region," said Anthony Zinni, a retired four-star Marine general who led the Central Command.

At the heart of Gen. Berger's plan is the establishment of naval expeditionary units -- what the Marines call "littoral regiments" -- whose mission would be to take on the Chinese navy.

If a confrontation loomed, the regiments would disperse small teams of Marines, who would rush in sleek landing craft to the tiny islands that dot the South and East China Seas, according to Gen. Berger and other senior Marine officers. Armed with sensor-laden drones that operate in the air, on the sea and underwater, the Marines would target Chinese warships before they ventured into the wider Pacific.

The Marine teams would fire antiship missiles at the Chinese fleet. Targeting data also would be passed to Air Force or Navy units farther away, which would fire longer-range missiles.

To elude retaliatory blows, the Marines would hop from island to island every 48 or 72 hours, relying on amphibious ships that could be piloted remotely. Other Marine teams would operate from U.S. warships with decoy vessels nearby.

Gen. Berger said the wargames showed that the new Marine capabilities and tactics would create "a ton of problems" for the Chinese forces.

The Marines would deploy new missile batteries, drone units and amphibious ships. A major push is being made to ease the logistical burden, such as exploring the use of 3-D printing on the battlefield to make spare parts. The strategy requires deeper integration with the Navy, and Marine teams might perform other missions like refueling submarines or sub-hunting planes.

To fund the capabilities, the Marines will dispense with all tanks over the next few years, eliminate its bridge-laying companies and cut back on aviation and howitzers.

Gen. Berger said that adjusting over the next 10 to 20 years is part of the plan, and that the Marines are proceeding with "the cleared-eyed view that the threat is moving also."



Document J000000020200323eg3n0005w



On Business: Boardrooms Could Use A Few More Insiders

By John D. Stoll 
829 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

In late 2008, with financial panic gripping the economy and automobile demand evaporating, General Motors Co.'s board met three times a week. The car company's health was failing as executives tweaked forecasts daily. The job of pressing executives for a realistic rescue plan fell to 12 independent directors.

This type of boardroom triage was common during the Great Recession, after the dot-com bubble burst and in the wake of the 9/11 terror attacks. Plenty of vulnerable businesses went the way of GM, filing for chapter 11 or going belly up. The survivors gripped the wheel hard and steered sharp, capitalized on rivals' misfortunes or simply got lucky.

As the new coronavirus wreaks havoc on U.S. corporations, and entire industries teeter, it is fair to ask how prepared today's boardrooms are. I would argue that a movement that was designed to make boards better may instead leave some of them flat-footed as their companies face this crisis.

The culling of the ultimate boardroom insider has taken place over the past couple decades without much fanfare, as investment advisers and governance experts made war on the "overboarded" director.

These are the directors who held a half-dozen or so public board seats at the same time. Some companies sought out such people to fill their directors' chairs, believing their broad perspective on a multitude of industries and companies made them experts on best and worst practices.

Detractors say these directors are overworked, and advance the old-boys' network at a time when diversity is top priority. If a director simply bounces from boardroom to boardroom, can they really focus on the specific needs of a troubled firm? And, if the same people keep getting tapped for new board openings, how will younger prospects with fresh ideas get a shot?

"The reason there are concerns about overboarding is exactly times like these," said Rusty O'Kelley, co-leader of Russell Reynolds Associates's Board & CEO advisory. "It may be easy to juggle multiple boards when times are going well, but what happens when too many board seats and other commitments get in the way?"

Jerry Davis, a professor at the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business, recently published a paper called "Who Killed the Inner Circle?" that reflects decades of research. He estimated there were at least 90 directors serving on five or more corporate boards of major U.S. companies in 1974. The number fell to 75 in 1994. By 2012, Shirley Jackson, then the president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, was the lone ultra-insider at a major firm.

"The inner circle has vanished," Mr. Davis said. As a result, the amount of shared insights among corporations is shrinking with it. He notes JPMorgan Chase & Co. once was connected to 48 different companies via its directors' various affiliations; today that number is nine.

These affiliations have proved invaluable in past times of crisis. When GM was skidding toward bankruptcy, Ford Motor Co. relied on a longtime board member with deep connections and multiple board seats -- ex-Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President John Thornton -- to help it survive its own liquidity crisis. Mr. Thornton remains on Ford's board as its longest-serving director.

"I think there is this simplistic notion out there saying that sitting on many boards is a bad thing," said Alexander Ljungqvist, a professor at the Stockholm School of Economics and a director at a Swedish pension fund. "This ignores the fact that there is a trade-off between a breadth of experiences and connections, and a limited attention."

Mr. Ljungqvist largely blames influential proxy advisers, such as Institutional Shareholder Services, and investment funds for adopting a "one-size-fits-all approach." ISS and other advisers recommend voting against independent directors with more than four seats. BlackRock and Vanguard, two of the world's largest institutional investors, draw the line at three.

Longtime turnaround expert Steve Miller, who has served on several boards, said he tapped his connections and expertise in the bankruptcy and restructuring fields, acquired from his 17-year tenure as a United Airlines board member, when he joined the board of American International Group Inc. He joined AIG in 2009 as it began a major overhaul after the financial crisis, and stayed on at United until 2010. Now he is the chairman of Purdue Pharma.

Mr. Miller signed on at Purdue, the maker of OxyContin, in 2018 as it grappled with mounting litigation over accusations that it helped fuel the opioid epidemic. In an opinion piece published by The Wall Street Journal, he said he "never encountered a situation as challenging or important to society than the one I now face."

Directors on multiple boards are necessary fixtures in these boardrooms. "They're parachuting in and can make a big difference," Mr. Miller said. "They don't just accept everything at face value."

Document J000000020200323eg3n0005v





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Millions of Jobs at Risk In Downturn

By Josh Mitchell and Josh Zumbrun 
844 words
23 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A5
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Corrections & Amplifications

The median "optimistic" forecast for third-quarter growth in nonfarm payrolls was 15,000 in a Wall Street Journal survey of 34 economists taken March 18-19. A graphic accompanying a March 23 Coronavirus Pandemic article about U.S. economic prospects incorrectly showed a loss of 15,000.

(WSJ April 8, 2020)

(END)

The fallout from the coronavirus outbreak is expected to have a significant negative impact on U.S. economic prospects, with predictions emerging for losses of up to five million jobs this year and a drop in economic output of as much as $1.5 trillion.

A recession is now all but certain, according to a Wall Street Journal survey of 34 economists that projects a downturn that would last months at least, and would in some ways rival -- and possibly even surpass -- the severity of the 2007-09 slump triggered by the housing collapse and subprime loan debacle.

"This shock is very big," said Bruce Kasman, head of economic research at JPMorgan. "You are going to see in the next two months the consequences of the actions taken in terms of economic activity. That set of trade-offs is not really clear in policy makers' minds right now."

Economic forecasts, which remained upbeat just two weeks ago, suddenly turned bleak as it became clear a pandemic, one that started in Asia and spread to Europe, would now affect American life far more than originally understood.

The extent of the expected downturn remains unclear to many economists, given uncertainty about the trajectory of the pandemic, extreme volatility in financial markets, restrictions on economic activity of unknown duration and a government response that is likely to continue to change in the weeks and months ahead.

Mr. Kasman expects U.S. gross domestic product will fall by 1.8% this year. Before the outbreak, he had projected output to grow 1.5%. That would translate into $700 billion in lost output.

The economy, Mr. Kasman believes, will lose between 7 million and 8 million jobs this spring, though some of those will likely come back if, as he expects, the economy rebounds in the second half of the year.

Sung Won Sohn, a business economist at Loyola Marymount University, expects the coronavirus to cost $592 billion in output, after inflation, and a loss of nearly 5.2 million jobs in 2020, compared with his pre-virus forecast.

Goldman Sachs projects U.S. output to fall 3.1% this year and unemployment to soar to 9% from the current 3.5%. Unemployment last peaked at 10% in October 2009, after the housing and financial collapse. Economists at Goldman estimate U.S. jobless claims -- a proxy for layoffs -- increased by roughly 2 million just this week.

"A public health emergency is morphing into an economic emergency," said David Shulman of the UCLA Anderson School of Management. "The basic outlines of the economy will be determined more by biology than by economics."

Some industries might actually be forced to hire workers as buying patterns shift. Amazon.com Inc., for example,plans to hire 100,000 more employees in the U.S. as it boosts online deliveries. Walmart Inc.said it would pay cash bonuses totaling $550 million to its hourly workers and hire 150,000 temporary staffers.

And some believe an unprecedented government relief effort could still avoid some of the worst-case scenarios. In the median "optimistic" forecast, economists still see an extremely sharp contraction in the second quarter, but a recovery apparent by the third quarter of 2020, with 1.7% growth that quarter and 3.1% growth in the fourth quarter.

Under this scenario, job growth could recover to 15,000 in the third quarter and 175,000 in the fourth quarter. Unemployment, they said, could still be contained at 4.5%.

For most economists, their optimistic scenario isn't a "V-shaped recovery" with a sharp collapse followed by an extremely rapid rebound, but a scenario in which the contraction is brief.

"Things look so gloomy right now that perhaps we should be grateful if we can get out of this health crisis with a brief recession," said Bernard Baumohl of the Economic Outlook Group.

"You just cannot rule out the prospect of a longer, more destructive depression," said Mr. Baumohl. "What is clear is that we are in a race against time."

The pessimistic scenario, according to the Journal survey, would be a sharp and long-lasting contraction. The median pessimistic forecast sees GDP decreasing by 10% in the second quarter, falling another 3.8% in the third quarter and dropping 0.5% in the fourth quarter. It projects the unemployment rate climbing continuously, reaching about 7.4% by the end of the year.

Job losses, under this scenario, could approach 800,000 a month in the second quarter, followed by 300,000 a month in the third quarter and 40,000 a month in the fourth quarter.

---

Anthony DeBarros contributed to this article.



Document J000000020200323eg3n0008u



Risk, Uncertainty and Coronavirus

By Allison Schrager 
780 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A17
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The government response to the coronavirus pandemic has seemed chaotic -- underreaction one minute, piling on restrictions the next. It has left many wondering whether anyone is weighing the trade-offs. Do heavy-handed measures carry the benefits to justify the considerable costs? The uncomfortable answer: We don't know.

The novel coronavirus appears at first to be a problem of risk management. It is a dangerous disease that threatens the lives of our neighbors and loved ones. Our response -- increased social distancing, shutting down businesses -- is aimed at reducing that risk. But the problem isn't risk so much as uncertainty.

In 1921, shortly after the 1918 flu pandemic, economist Frank Knight made the distinction between risk and uncertainty. The future is unknowable, but risk is measurable. It can be estimated using data, provided similar situations have happened before. Uncertainty, on the other hand, deals with outcomes we can't predict or never saw coming.

Risk can be managed. Uncertainty makes it impossible to weigh costs and benefits, such as whether reducing the spread of a virus is worth the cost of an economic shutdown that could last several months. The most responsible course of action is to assume the worst and take the most risk-averse position. Managing uncertainty is expensive: In markets, it means holding cash; in society, it means shutting down.

Almost everything about the novel coronavirus is uncertain. It was unexpected, though perhaps more of a surprise than it should have been. Public-health experts have been warning for years that a pandemic could happen. But every few years come warnings of potential catastrophes that never seem to materialize.

Among the unknowns about the virus: the true hospitalization and death rates; how infectious it is; how many asymptomatic patients are walking around; how it affects young people; how risk factors vary among different countries with different populations, pollution levels and urban densities. It seems certain the virus will overwhelm hospitals in some places, as it has in China and Italy. We also don't know how long these extreme economic and social disruptions will last. Without reliable information, predictions are based on incomplete data and heroic assumptions.

This uncertainty makes it much harder to manage the virus, or to strike a balance between public health and the economy. What happened in 1918 or 1957 isn't particularly instructive. The virus is different. The world is different. So is our health-care system.

The goal should be to move from uncertainty to risk, which will take time and data. The way forward is testing as many people as possible -- not only people with symptoms. Some carriers are asymptomatic. California is starting to test asymptomatic young people to learn more about transmission and infection rates. Testing everyone may not be feasible, but regularly testing a random sample of the population would be informative.

This helped in South Korea, which tested thousands of people a day. South Korea has managed to slow the rate of new cases and gather data about how the disease has spread, its effects on different populations, and the mortality rate in that country. More testing would also help spare the world from future shutdowns if the virus reappears before there is a safe, effective vaccine.

Every medical test has some rate of false positives and negatives. The error rate for Covid-19 tests may be especially high. Scientists are still learning about how long the virus lives in the body. Administering tests takes skill and is prone to human error. We don't know how reliable tests were in China; studies suggest the false-negative rate there is between 3% and 50% -- an enormous range. If tests aren't reliable, the supposed source of certainty can create even more uncertainty. The Food and Drug Administration must balance the urgency for more testing with caution to ensure new tests meet its standards for accuracy.

Policy makers should throw as much energy as possible into getting accurate data. That would allow the world to assess the real risk of the coronavirus. This may lead us to continue to take drastic action to limit its spread, or it may allow us to temper our response, managing the risk at a much lower cost to both society and the economy. Whatever the response, it will be appropriate, based on an assessment of risk -- not uncertainty and fear.

---

Ms. Schrager is a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute and author of "An Economist Walks Into a Brothel: And Other Unexpected Places to Understand Risk."

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Keynes on Pandemics and Coverage by Media" -- WSJ April 3, 2020)

Document J000000020200324eg3o0005w





Life & Arts: Emily St. John Mandel Takes On a Madoff-Like Ponzi Scheme

By Caryn James 
833 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

With the coronavirus spreading fear and upending the financial world, Emily St. John Mandel seems especially prescient at choosing her novels' subjects. Sales have been surging for her 2014 book, "Station Eleven," in which a lethal disease called the Georgia Flu quickly spreads across the world. Now "The Glass Hotel," which Knopf will publish on Tuesday, depicts the fallout of financial collapse.

Although the new book was inspired by the Bernard Madoff Ponzi scheme that was exposed in 2008, the story includes a range of characters adjacent to the fraud, with themes of class, complicity and what people do to gain and keep wealth. "Once you start writing about a massive financial crime, you're writing about money broadly speaking," Ms. Mandel says.

The character Jonathan Alkaitis in "The Glass Hotel" bears no resemblance to Mr. Madoff, but his crime is a near duplicate. He creates a bogus investment fund that bilks charities, individuals and companies out of billions of dollars. As in the Madoff case, the scheme collapses in December 2008 when Alkaitis is arrested.

The novel swoops back and forth in time. It is written from multiple points of view, including Alkaitis, two of his victims, several employees complicit in his fraud, and a heroine named Vincent.

Vincent, who is adrift personally, has returned to the isolated Canadian island where she grew up, and works as a hotel bartender. She meets Alkaitis, the hotel's owner, and they settle into mutually beneficial arrangement in which she becomes his second wife, or so the world thinks.

Ms. Mandel, 41, grew up on Denman Island off the coast of British Columbia, and lives in Brooklyn. Here, an edited transcript.

WSJ: What intrigued you about the Madoff case?

A: One was the scale of the crime. Another was the way Madoff seemed almost like the embodiment of an era. What I remember from that time of the [2008] economic collapse is that there was incredible popular rage directed against him, but it wasn't just about the crime. We'd been operating under the assumption that our economy was fairly solid, but it turned out to have been a house of cards. And here was this fabulously wealthy con man who had stolen all of this money from so many people.

WSJ: Did you have any background in finance, or consult anyone in that world as research?

A: I have very little background in finance. Figuring out how the scheme worked was enough. I read books and the court transcripts, which were fascinating and sometimes wrenching. I didn't consult anyone in a formal way, but somebody quite close to me was a Madoff investor. He says now, "We'd go over those financial statements. They never made sense. We could never figure out where those numbers were coming from, but the returns were so good, I shrugged." There was a kind of collective delusion at play.

WSJ: One of Alkaitis's victims is Olivia, an artist in her 70s who loses all of her small savings.

A: There is an unfortunate phenomenon around the way artists think about money, which is that it's just not part of their calculation. That carefree Bohemian lifestyle doesn't always age well, and what can seem charming and romantic in your early 20s takes on a very different character by your mid-40s, let alone your 70s. Olivia hadn't educated herself about money, and trusted her friend Jonathan. She is a purely tragic character.

WSJ: The thoughts of the various employees complicit in the Ponzi scheme are written in a joint first-person voice called "The Office Chorus." Why link them?

A: I found myself fascinated by the collective guilt. Does the presence of all of these co-conspirators make it easier to commit the crime? They begin, "We had crossed a line." I think it's easier to say we crossed a line, than I crossed a line. I found myself thinking about the camaraderie one has with any group of co-workers and how much more intense that would be if you were engaged in a crime.

WSJ: Vincent learns that having money gives her "the freedom to stop thinking about money." What has your own relationship to money been?

A: I'm from a working-class background. There was always a low-level anxiety about money. Following the success of "Station Eleven," I'm fairly financially comfortable. My experience is that it's just revelatory to not have to constantly think about money.

WSJ: Since the coronavirus hit, have you been hearing from readers about "Station Eleven"?

A: Only via Twitter, and responses are divided. Some people seem sort of mad that they chose to read a pandemic novel during a pandemic. Other people seem comforted by it. I would personally not choose to read a pandemic novel during a pandemic. Maybe wait a few months.

Document J000000020200324eg3o00006





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Trump Sparks Run on Two Drugs

By Joe Parkinson and David Gauthier-Villars 
702 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Health officials across the world are issuing warnings over the use of antimalarial drugs after President Trump's comments about treating the coronavirus with them sparked panic-buying and overdoses.

In recent days, thousands of consumers across Africa and South Asia rushed to stockpile chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, drugs that are usually used to combat malaria, vacuuming up supplies in cities in the developing world, sending prices skyrocketing and prompting panicked warnings from local authorities.

In the U.S. and some other developed countries, meantime, some doctors have started to prescribe the drugs against the coronavirus, sparking heated ethical debates because their efficacy has yet to be demonstrated in full-scale clinical studies.

At issue, health officials said, is how to reconcile the pace of rigorous scientific research with the exponential spread of the infection.

"There is no known dosage for Covid-19 and whether it can actually cure it, it's safer to avoid chloroquine," said Dr. Chris Kaganda, a Ugandan public-health expert, referring to the respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus. "But you know these are desperate times."

Nigeria's government on Saturday said three people had been hospitalized after overdosing on chloroquine, while pharmacies in Lagos, the continent's largest city at 20 million people, reported running out of supplies.

Similar panic-buying scenes took place in Uganda, Ghana, Kenya and Morocco. Chloroquine has also sold out in pharmacies across Pakistan, those looking for the drug said.

Chloroquine-based drugs are common in Africa, which accounts for 92% of malaria cases in the world. The drugs can be bought over the counter without prescription and are also used to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.

President Trump said at a White House briefing last week that he told the Food and Drug Administration to expedite the study and use of the "very powerful" drug chloroquine to treat coronavirus. The president doubled down on Saturday, posting on his Twitter feed that hydroxychloroquine and the antibiotic azithromycin "taken together" could be "one of the biggest game-changers in the history of medicine" and urged them to be deployed "IMMEDIATELY."

Mr. Trump's claims immediately began trending on social media across Africa. In Nigeria, which has reported 22 cases of the virus, the stockpiling and hospitalizations forced health officials to warn citizens against self-medicating with the drug. The country's Centre for Disease Control said the World Health Organization hasn't approved use of the drug against the virus.

Antimalarial drugs chloroquine phosphate and hydroxychloroquine have both shown early signs of improving symptoms of some patients diagnosed with Covid-19, based on reports by doctors and researchers in South Korea, France and China.

In France, interest in antimalarial drugs surged last week after a French professor released a study showing that 100% of patients infected by coronavirus and treated with a combination of hydroxychloroquine and the azithromycin antibiotic were cured after six days. The proportion of cured patients was 70% for those treated only with hydroxychloroquine and 12.5% for those who received no treatment, the study showed.

Although the study had a very limited scope -- it encompassed only 30 patients -- French Prof. Didier Raoult said he opted to publish the findings because of the urgent need for an effective drug against coronavirus.

Inserm, a research institute affiliated with the French health ministry, on Sunday said it had added hydroxychloroquine to a list of experimental treatments it will test as part of a broader European study.

But while experts have warned that there is no scientific evidence yet that the drug is effective against the virus, some doctors say they can't wait for theresults of clinical studies.

In the U.S., hospital orders for chloroquine were up 3,000% from March 1 to 17 compared with typical demand, according to Premier Inc., one of the largest group-purchasing organizations in the U.S. for drugs and other hospital supplies. During that same period, hydroxychloroquine orders were up 260% compared with typical demand.

Chloroquine, approved for Americans in the 1940s, and hydroxychloroquine, greenlighted the next decade, are also prescribed for patients with lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.

Document J000000020200324eg3o0005p





U.S. News: Nashville Faces a One-Two Punch --- Businesses that just reopened after this month's tornado are forced to close again

By Arian Campo-Flores 
753 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

When a tornado tore across Nashville earlier this month, destroying homes and businesses, it blew out windows at one of Margot McCormack's restaurants and damaged the roof of another. She managed to reopen the eateries in the trendy East Nashville neighborhood in less than a week despite power outages and no phone or internet service.

Then the new coronavirus struck. She had to close the restaurant dining rooms again and focus on takeout service. Sales have plummeted. She had to lay off most of her roughly 50 employees.

"We have no idea what's going to happen," said Ms. McCormack, 56 years old. "We're all frightened out of our minds."

Parts of Tennessee have taken a crushing one-two punch. Five tornadoes thrashed a swath of middle Tennessee on March 3, leaving 25 people dead and thousands of buildings damaged or destroyed. With recovery efforts still under way in many affected areas, residents and business owners are now confronting a viral menace.

"It's obviously devastating," said Courtney McKay, the 28-year-old owner of caterer In Good Company in Nashville. "I don't know how we're supposed to rebuild."

More than 1,500 residential structures and nearly 500 commercial ones were affected by the tornado that struck Nashville. Though roads have been reopened and electricity has been restored, debris collection is continuing, and people are still filing claims with the federal government.

Since the first Covid-19 case was confirmed in Davidson County, home to Nashville, five days after the tornado, the coronavirus has taken an increasing toll. The county had 179 cases as of Sunday, according to the Nashville mayor's office. The city has prohibited dine-in service at restaurants, shut down nonessential businesses and directed residents to stay at home except for necessary tasks.

Disaster-assistance centers, which were opened after the tornado for people to submit claims and apply for assistance, were closed over the weekend.

Before that, "we were still seeing pretty fluid traffic coming in," said Hannah Davis, the city's affordable housing program manager. The city is exploring new ways of reaching those affected, she said.

Though thousands of volunteers helped clear debris and distribute food in the aftermath of the tornado in Nashville, fewer have been showing up as coronavirus worries take hold, said Lori Shinton, chief executive of volunteer organization Hands On Nashville. Following the guidance of health officials, the organization is now deploying volunteers in groups not exceeding 10 people.

In Putnam County, a hard-hit area about 80 miles east of Nashville where one of the twisters killed 19 people, debris removal is still under way, said Mayor Randy Porter. About 700 homes were damaged by the tornadoes, and engineers continue to go house to house to examine structural and electrical issues.

Twenty-nine businesses, from manufacturers to diners, were hurt, said Allison Boshears, director of communications for the Cookeville-Putnam County Chamber of Commerce. Some companies that succeeded in reopening have now shut down and sent employees home because of concerns over the virus's spread, she said. As of Saturday, the county had five Covid-19 cases, Mr. Porter said.

Phil Cobucci's living room was demolished when the tornado sent part of an adjacent building crashing through the roof of his house in northern Nashville. The pergola outside vanished, and his car was totaled. He and his partner have been staying with friends and are about to move to a rental while they go through the insurance-claims process.

Now that the economy is grinding to a halt, work for Mr. Cobucci's marketing firm, BAM! Social Business, is quickly drying up. He estimates he could lose as much as 70% of his business.

"When the tornado hit, it was hour by hour, touch and go," said the 36-year-old. "Now it's minute by minute."

In East Nashville, Tanya Coe reopened her boutique Goodbuy Girls, which sustained some structural damage, 11 days after the tornado. The following day, she closed it, as social distancing and other measures taken in response to the coronavirus depleted foot traffic. She is now focused on selling online, but worries that demand for the vintage cowgirl boots her store is known for will evaporate.

"It has hurt a lot financially," said Ms. Coe, 33. And "things could get a lot worse."

Document J000000020200324eg3o0000a





China Is a Bad Coronavirus Role Model

By John P. Walters 
712 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A17
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The coronavirus pandemic has elicited some strange jealousy for China's authoritarianism. "In the face of a previously unknown virus, China has rolled out perhaps the most ambitious, agile and aggressive disease containment effort in history," declared a Feb. 28 World Health Organization report. The argument is that the unchecked power of the Chinese government is a main reason the country has successfully slowed -- and perhaps even stopped -- domestic transmission of the virus. Some commentators even claim that China will emerge from the crisis a stronger global power, and that the U.S. will need its help to recover.

These claims are misleading. More to the point, neither China nor its style of authoritarian government will help America overcome the crisis, restore economic growth, and protect citizens from infectious diseases.

The first case of the new coronavirus in China can be traced to Nov. 17, according to government data seen by the South China Morning Post. New cases were reported by health authorities each day thereafter in November. Rather than share this information with the world, Chinese Communist Party officials suppressed discoveries and even punished the doctors who first reported them.

Li Wenliang warned fellow doctors in late December of a new disease that resembled SARS. He was reprimanded by Chinese police, accused of "making false comments" that had "severely disturbed the social order," and made to admit to "illegal behavior." Li then contracted the coronavirus and died on Feb. 7 at 33.

China's coverup had global consequences. It wasted precious time during which governments could have isolated people at risk of spreading the disease from its epicenter in Wuhan, developed testing and treatment capacities, and prepared citizens to take precautions to protect themselves. China compromised the world's ability to respond to the deadly virus. The result has been the most dangerous global pandemic in a century.

This crisis has also laid bare gaps in American policy. The U.S. needs to reevaluate its reliance on basic medical necessities made overseas. Biodefense is a key component of national security; the U.S. needs to put more technology -- including real-time mapping and artificial intelligence -- to work tracking diseases before the next big outbreak. U.S. officials also need to continue to speak the truth about who is going to help the world overcome this crisis. Spoiler: it isn't the Chinese Communist Party.

As scientists around the world -- including from China -- are working at breakneck speed to develop a vaccine for the coronavirus, the Chinese Communist Party continues to sow the seeds of division and misinformation world-wide. China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian, whose Twitter account is an absurd repository of propaganda, accused the U.S. military earlier this month of bringing the coronavirus to Wuhan.

Last week China announced it was banishing most reporters from the Journal, the New York Times and the Washington Post, many of whom conducted heroic front-line reporting on the coronavirus. These are not the actions of a global leader.

It will likely be the free nations of the world, with their superior capacities for scientific innovation, that develop treatments, a vaccine and new means of stopping the epidemic. And we can trust that they will share those innovations quickly with the world. It will also be the free economies, with their capacities for renewal and growth, that will bring back prosperity after the crisis abates. We can expect the free nations, led by the U.S., to emerge much stronger than China.

My Hudson Institute colleague John Lee has chronicled in two recent reports how the Chinese economy was slowing even before this global downturn because of chronic, politically directed overinvestment. This still threatens the solvency of China's overleveraged local governments. Remember, too, why China steals intellectual property: because it can't produce innovation on the scale that the U.S. economy does.

Free, transparent and dynamic economic and political systems are needed to win the fight against the coronavirus and drive the recovery. This is why the U.S. will remain the most important global leader. Don't expect Communist China to offer meaningful help any time soon.

---

Mr. Walters is chief operating officer of the Hudson Institute.

Document J000000020200324eg3o0002x





Serious Crime Falls, With the Exception of Auto Theft

By Ben Chapman 
358 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Crime in New York City is falling as the city's response to the new coronavirus ramps up, data released by the New York Police Department on Monday show.

The number of serious felonies reported by the NYPD dropped by 16.6% between March 16 and March 22, compared with the same period last year, according to police data.

Mayor Bill de Blasio ordered city schools closed on March 15, in the first in a series of wide-reaching official actions to stem the spread of the disease.

There were 1,337 serious felonies in the city for the week that ended Sunday, compared with 1,604 in the same week one year earlier, according to the NYPD data.

The only significant increase in the city's seven-index crimes -- murder, rape, robbery, felony assault, burglary, grand larceny and grand larceny auto -- was in stolen vehicles.

Car thefts rose 51.5% for the week ended Sunday, according to the NYPD's figures, rising from 68 incidents for that week in 2019, to 103 incidents in 2020.

During a Friday news conference about coronavirus, NYPD Commissioner Dermot Shea said the public-health crisis is deterring crime.

"You see crowds disappearing on streets and other areas," Mr. Shea said. "That has translated to a decrease in crime."

The commissioner also said the NYPD has seen a decrease in 911 emergency calls throughout the city, with the exception of calls for service regarding sick people, which have increased.

According to the NYPD's data, the crime of murder saw the biggest percentage decrease for the week of March 16 through March 22, falling 85.7% from seven murders for that week in 2019 to one murder for the same period in 2020.

The NYPD data show officers made 16% fewer arrests since the mayor closed the schools in response to the virus, with 701 arrests for the week of March 16 through March 22, compared with 835 arrests for the same period in 2019.

Police officers also issued fewer parking tickets and summonses for traffic violations, the figures show.

Document J000000020200324eg3o00032





Global View
Will Coronavirus Kill Populism?

By Walter Russell Mead 
826 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A15
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The coronavirus's economic impact is dramatic; the virus's consequences for world politics could be more consequential. To begin with, the balance of world power could change significantly as some nations recover with relative speed, while others face longer and deeper social and political crises. But the crisis is also affecting nations' domestic politics, and it is through this channel that its most lasting consequences will likely be felt.

Well before the pandemic, populist movements, sometimes under authoritarian leaders, were challenging established, centrist political parties and ideas around the world. The globalist, free-trade policies that had dominated the international agenda since the 1990s were among the populists' chief targets, along with international institutions ranging from the International Monetary Fund and the World Trade Organization to the European Union.

The question is whether the pandemic will provoke renewed support for technical expertise and multilateralism or will accelerate the erosion of what critics call the "neoliberal order" of the post-Cold War world.

There is a clear case for a return to establishment politics and global policy making in the face of a problem like the coronavirus. Both the medical and economic dimensions of the pandemic call for expert leadership and international cooperation. Neither the spread of a global disease nor its economic consequences can be dealt with by national governments on their own. If one country succeeds in controlling the epidemic but its neighbors fail, the epidemic will return. And the disruption of world trade patterns and financial markets will require concerted action to get the global economy back on its feet.

So far, however, the coronavirus does not seem to be promoting cooperation among world leaders or respect for global institutions. The pandemic has widened the gap between the U.S. and China. While the EU has moved quickly to remove limits on eurozone members' fiscal deficits, Europe's national governments so far have focused almost entirely on addressing their problems without much consultation. Steps like excluding Taiwan from emergency meetings and praising China's response to the virus have made the World Health Organization look like a mouthpiece for Beijing. Neither the Group of Seven nor the Group of 20 has played a conspicuous role, and the IMF and World Bank haven't been at the forefront of the world's response. National governments, not international agencies and institutions, have primarily shaped the response.

This may all change as this unprecedented global crisis unfolds, but the current dynamic will likely continue for some time. With the partial exception of the eurozone, the sudden need for many businesses to seek loans and bailouts from national governments will increase the power of national politicians. It will also encourage voters -- many of whose livelihoods will now depend on government help -- to look to national leaders as their defenders against storms and dangers arising from foreign parts.

Yet some aspects of the crisis push the political trend the other way. Namely, many countries lack the resources needed to weather a shock of this kind. As the pandemic cripples economic activity in countries like Egypt and Pakistan, international organizations like the IMF and the World Bank will likely move back toward center stage.

The international trading system will face unprecedented pressure. The WTO was not designed for times like this; a period of nation-state-led economic recovery will put more pressure on that troubled organization. The potential for enduring shifts in the politics of trade should not be discounted. The Chinese origin of the virus and the ensuing recession and disruption of supply chains could lead voters in many countries to embrace the politics of protectionism and autarky. If national leaders conclude that the security of critical medical, information-technology and defense supply chains justifies the economic cost of the protectionist policies required to produce critical industrial and medical goods at home, the cause of free trade would suffer a major defeat.

The world will be looking at the U.S. elections this year with more than its usual concern. The verdict of American voters on Donald Trump, the world's most prominent antiestablishment populist, will have both substantive and symbolic consequences for politics around the world. A victory for Joe Biden would put the weight of the U.S. government back on the side of the post-Cold War program of multilateralism and globalization.

At the level of symbolism, a Trump defeat would signal to politicians around the world that the populist surge might have peaked; we could see a return to more consensus-based centrist politics and policy making in other parts of the West.

A Trump win, on the other hand, would be the strongest possible signal to the world that the politics of disruption have not run their course. Mr. Trump's election was a shock to the old international system; his re-election in the aftermath of the pandemic would be more consequential still.

Document J000000020200324eg3o00065





World News: U.S. Launches Bid to Save Afghanistan Deal

By Dion Nissenbaum in Beirut and Ehsanullah Amiri in Kabul 
869 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo launched a diplomatic mission on Monday to salvage the Trump administration's faltering, three-week-old deal with the Taliban that sets a timetable for the U.S. to withdraw from Afghanistan by the middle of next year.

Amid a coronavirus pandemic that has constricted global travel, Mr. Pompeo flew to Afghanistan and Qatar for unannounced meetings with Afghan leaders and the Taliban.

He sought to inject new momentum into a deal with the Taliban that has quickly run into new obstacles, threatening the administration's efforts to extricate America from 18 years of war in Afghanistan.

At a joint U.S.-Qatar military base in Doha, Mr. Pompeo met with Mullah Baradar, the Taliban's chief negotiator, in a bid to persuade the group to accept a compromise prison swap plan that is supposed to happen before the next phase of peace talks begins.

The Taliban are refusing to meet with the Afghan government for substantive talks until Kabul frees 5,000 of its prisoners -- a deal the U.S. agreed to help broker when it signed the deal with the militant group.

In Kabul, Mr. Pompeo spent eight hours in talks that produced no breakthrough toward bridging a political divide that has led to the creation of parallel Afghan presidencies, according to U.S. and Afghan officials.

"We are in a crisis," said a senior State Department official in Kabul. "The fear is that unless this crisis gets resolved and resolved soon, that could affect the peace process . . . and our agreement with the Talibs could be put at risk."

The Trump administration agreed last month to pull all its forces out of Afghanistan by July 2021 -- if the Taliban do what they can to make sure the country isn't used as a haven for terrorists planning attacks on the U.S.

After the deal was signed, President Trump spoke by phone with Mullah Baradar and expressed optimism that the Taliban leader would honor the pact.

U.S. officials have warned the Taliban that they are squandering an opportunity for peace by carrying out a series of deadly attacks across Afghanistan since they signed the deal in Doha. Mr. Pompeo has warned the group that it must curtail its attacks for the deal to be a success.

Afghanistan is also riven by internal political divisions. President Ashraf Ghani was sworn in this month for a second five-year term. But his election challenger, former ally Abdullah Abdullah, refused to accept the results amid allegations of fraud. Instead, Mr. Abdullah, the country's former chief executive officer, has declared himself president and sought to create a parallel government in Kabul.

Mr. Pompeo got both men to agree to meet with him on Monday at Mr. Ghani's presidential palace. But the meetings produced no breakthrough, according to U.S. and Afghan officials. Mr. Ghani rejected demands by Mr. Abdullah that he be named executive prime minister and have equal power, according to sources within the Afghan government.

"The mediation by Secretary Pompeo had no result, and he left Kabul," a senior Afghan government official said.

Mr. Pompeo had planned to meet again with both men after they held private talks. Instead, he left Kabul without seeing the Afghan leaders again.

"What we want is President Ghani and former chief executive Abdullah to come to an agreement about how to form an inclusive government that is acceptable to both," the U.S. official said.

Former Secretary of State John Kerry carried out a similar diplomatic mission in 2014, when Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah first ran against each other for president. At that time, the two men agreed to a power-sharing deal that made Mr. Ghani president and Mr. Abdullah the country's chief executive officer.

Mr. Abdullah challenged Mr. Ghani again last year in an election marred by allegations of fraud. The Afghan government certified Mr. Ghani as president, but Mr. Abdullah rejected the results.

This month, the two Afghan leaders held simultaneous inauguration ceremonies in adjacent palaces in Kabul. While Mr. Abdullah wields almost no power, his parallel presidency has undercut progress in talks with the Taliban.

The Taliban were supposed to sit down with Afghan leaders two weeks ago to launch direct talks. But they have to resolve the prisoner swap first.

On Sunday, the U.S. and Qatar helped broker an unusual Skype meeting between Taliban leaders and Afghan government officials to discuss the impasse. Mr. Pompeo sought Monday to advance a compromise that would allow peace talks to proceed.

The U.S.-Taliban deal raised hopes for a significant reduction in violence in Afghanistan. That hasn't happened. The Taliban vowed to avoid attacks on U.S. troops in Afghanistan, but said they would keep fighting Afghan security forces.

At least 100 security forces and civilians have been killed since the deal was signed about three weeks ago. The deadliest attack took place last week in the southern province of Zabul, where at least 25 security forces were killed in an attack on their checkpoints, local officials said.

Document J000000020200324eg3o00069





Tax Would Hit Brooklyn Middle Class Hardest

By Josh Barbanel 
1,085 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10B
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

A mayoral commission's preliminary proposal to overhaul New York City's complex property-tax system would dramatically raise the tax burden on owners of one-to-three-family homes, while holding down taxes on co-op and condominium apartments, a Wall Street Journal analysis found.

Taxes on houses would rise by a total of more than $1.13 billion, or about 25% above current taxes, even though more than a third of all owners of these homes would pay less.

Owners of Manhattan penthouses and mansions would pay more too, but the plan would have the biggest tax shock on homeowners across an arc of newly fashionable Brooklyn neighborhoods, from Williamsburg in the north to Park Slope, where Mayor Bill de Blasio owns two row houses, to Bushwick to the east.

The commission was set up in 2018 to recommend changes to the city's tax system after a lawsuit backed by renters, civil-rights groups and major building owners threatened to upend it.

The suit charged that the complex system was unconstitutional and rigged to favor owners of houses and co-op and condominium apartments at the expense of other taxpayers and the renters who indirectly pay the tax.

The initial recommendations, released in January, proposed sweeping away special rules that kept assessments and taxes low by limiting assessments, and providing significant abatements to co-op and condo owners who live in their units. Instead, they proposed taxing all owners of houses, co-ops and condos based on the full-market value of properties, using a single combined tax rate that would raise the same amount of total tax revenue.

The plans call for the changes to be phased in over five years, and would include exemptions to protect taxpayers on limited incomes.

James Parrott, a commission member and director of economic and fiscal policies at the Center for New York City Affairs, cautioned that the commission's work is still at an early stage and could change. The commission has begun holding hearings on its proposals.

The commission focused on examples of inequities by comparing tax burden to market values, which have risen sharply in many neighborhoods as the city's economy boomed. The Journal looked at the impact and calculated estimated tax bills for 955,000 residential properties across the city, based on the commission plan.

In Brooklyn, owners of houses, co-ops and condominiums built before 2010 would face higher taxes, especially in neighborhoods where taxes haven't kept pace with the rise in values. Brooklyn taxpayers in total would pay $953 million more, a 42% increase.

More than four out of five homeowners in Brooklyn would see increases, while nearly three out of four taxpayers in Staten Island would pay less.

Overall throughout the city, taxes on co-ops and condos would be little changed. Taxes on co-ops would fall 2% on average, while taxes on older condos would be unchanged on average. But condos built since 2010 would see taxes rise by nearly 20%.

In the past, homeowners who benefited from the city's property-tax system have been able to persuade politicians to protect them year after year. But tax reformers now hope that the plan will divide homeowners as it cuts taxes for some and raises them for others, giving it a chance of passage in Albany.

Taxes on City Councilman Brad Lander's brick row house in Park Slope would rise nearly fivefold, according to the Journal analysis.

"I have been dramatically undertaxed and that is not, in aggregate, fair to the city," he said. He attributed the discrepancy to changes in "neighborhoods that have seen gentrification over the last decade or so."

But the Democrat said he wouldn't support a system that is "fair on average" unless it protects homeowners on limited incomes.

Taxes on two homes owned by Mr. de Blasio a few blocks away would rise from about $9,000 a year to more than $25,000, the Journal found. The mayor's office had no comment.

The Journal analysis estimated market values of co-ops, condos and small apartment buildings by reviewing 400,000 past sales and identified $543 billion in additional market values for these properties by looking at sales of nearby properties with similar characteristics.

It then computed the tax rate that would be needed in the new tax system to produce the current revenue paid to the city. The rate was used to calculate individual tax bills under the plan.

At 220 Central Park South, a Manhattan penthouse that sold last year for a New York record of $240 million, would face a tax of $2.26 million, up from $557,881. At 834 Fifth Ave., a co-op where an apartment sold for $77.5 million in 2015, taxes were projected to rise to $323,000 for each unit on average from $116,000.

But across much of Manhattan, co-op average taxes would fall sharply, and overall, two-thirds of co-ops would get lower bills.

To offset the impact of higher taxes, the commission proposed a discount for taxpayers who live in their homes and have limited incomes. The money to be paid for these subsidies and discounts would be raised through a higher tax rate for all residential taxpayers.

A subsidy of $600 million would raise overall taxes by an additional 4.8%, the Journal analysis found. That would translate to nearly 71,000 fewer taxpayers getting a tax cut than projected by the analysis before any discounts or subsidies are applied.

Since the commission made its recommendations, pressure from the constitutional challenge to the tax system has eased: In February, an appellate court panel, in a unanimous ruling, dismissed the suit.

---

Voters Could Voice

Ire on Election Day

Many Brooklyn homes are owned and occupied by less affluent families, who could find it hard to pay higher taxes.

Robert Marvin, a retired city worker and his wife, Elaine, a retired teacher, face a potential tax increase of $9,700, according to the Journal analysis, more than double their current tax bill on the row house in Prospect Lefferts Gardens they purchased in 1974 for $28,000.

With a fixed income from pensions and Social Security of about $120,000 a year, he said they likely wouldn't qualify for possible tax relief. He noted there could be backlash: "Homeowners vote in disproportionate percentages and have a considerable amount of political clout."

Document J000000020200324eg3o0002u





Coronavirus Threatens America's Nonprofits

By Angela Williams 
477 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A15
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

As policy makers respond to the coronavirus pandemic and its economic effects, they shouldn't forget about America's nonprofits, which are on the front lines of caring for the nation's most vulnerable populations. My organization is a case in point. Easterseals' national network of 68 affiliates provides services to people with disabilities. The closing of early-childhood programs, schools, after-school programs, adult day centers and other facilities threatens both their ability to provide services and the revenue streams that come from those services.

According to a report from the National Council of Nonprofits, 80% of U.S. nonprofit revenue comes from fees for services and government grants or contracts, 14% from private contributions, and 6% from other sources, including investment income. All these sources of money are in danger from the closing of facilities, cancellation of fundraising events, and decline in the stock market.

Nonprofits employ more than 12 million Americans and spend nearly $2 trillion a year. And the pandemic is creating new challenges for those who provide services. Nursing homes and other elder-care facilities are closing to visitors. Physical therapists and other health professionals who provide services to the elderly aren't able to do their jobs. As schools move to online classes, teachers and occupational therapists are unable to help children master skills needed to develop and thrive.

That's why it's vital that corporate and government leaders support strong partnerships to assure the continued strength and well-being of those who serve our communities.

Here are three priorities for policy makers:

-- Increase flexibility and expand eligibility for small-business loans. The pandemic has created a significant burden for small businesses -- including nonprofit ones -- that struggle to pay rent or mortgages while meeting payroll.

-- Mandate reimbursement for medical services within 45 days. Access to services is critical for millions of Americans who are older or have disabilities. Those services are accessible only if providers are reimbursed in a timely manner. The workforce that serves this population already experiences high rates of turnover as a result of low wages. Now, in states where the demand for care is growing daily, it's at risk of collapsing.

-- Expand access to services and support that keep vulnerable populations at home. All Americans are being urged to stay home as much as possible to prevent further spread of infection. Abiding by these recommendations is impossible for many people who depend on various health-care services. The federal and state governments can do more to support services delivered in the home, thereby minimizing the likelihood of institutionalization.

The nonprofit landscape is part of what makes America the greatest nation on Earth. Now's the time to take action to ensure the viability of the nonprofits our communities need.

---

Ms. Williams is president and CEO of Easterseals.

Document J000000020200324eg3o00068





U.S. News: Limit on Insanity Defense Allowed

By Jess Bravin 
337 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court said state or federal lawmakers can significantly limit the insanity defense, rejecting claims that the Constitution requires acquittal of defendants who lack the capacity to distinguish right from wrong when committing their crimes.

"Defining the precise relationship between criminal culpability and mental illness involves examining the workings of the brain, the purposes of the criminal law, the ideas of free will and responsibility," Justice Elena Kagan wrote for the 6-3 court, splitting from her liberal colleagues. "Which is all to say that it is a project for state governance, not constitutional law."

The case came from Kansas, which in 1996 limited the insanity defense to defendants who lack, "as a result of mental disease or defect . . . the culpable mental state required as an element of the offense charged," such as not understanding what a gun was for or the harm it could cause.

The legislature eliminated the traditional understanding of the defense in American and English law, under which defendants may also be acquitted if they lack the ability to recognize their criminal acts are morally wrong.

The British House of Lords explained the principle in an 1843 decision known as M'Naghten's Case, in which a Scottish wood-turner was acquitted of killing a government secretary he mistook for the prime minister after being found to suffer paranoid delusions of persecution by the Tory party.

James Kahler, under death sentence for the 2009 murders of four family members, argued that his due process rights were violated when Kansas denied him the opportunity to argue he was criminally insane because of severe depression that may have made him, as a defense expert testified, "psychotic and impaired to the point" of losing the required degree of moral consciousness.

Justice Kagan was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel Alito, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.

Justice Stephen Breyer, joined by Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor, dissented.

Document J000000020200324eg3o0000r





U.S. News: PG&E To Plead Guilty in 2018 Fire

By Katherine Blunt 
557 words
24 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

PG&E Corp. said it would accept criminal responsibility for starting the deadliest wildfire in California's history, becoming one of a small number of U.S. corporations to plead guilty to felony charges of involuntary manslaughter.

The indictment by a grand jury and PG&E's decision to plead guilty put to rest significant questions about the extent of the company's culpability in starting the Camp Fire in 2018.

PG&E, a utility that supplies electricity and natural gas to 16 million people, or about one in 20 Americans, admitted that its failure to maintain its equipment was criminally negligent and caused the deaths of more than 80 people. However, the indictment doesn't charge any PG&E employees or executives.

Butte County District Attorney Mike Ramsey, who led the investigation, said evidence showed that the company's maintenance problems resulted from decisions made by many people over many years, and he decided not to charge any single person.

On Monday morning, the San Francisco utility disclosed that it would plead guilty to an indictment in Butte County, where 85 people died during the Camp Fire. The indictment charges the company with 84 counts of manslaughter and one count of unlawfully causing a fire.

The company has agreed to pay a $3.48 million penalty, the statutory maximum.

Prosecutors proposed charging PG&E with arson, rather than manslaughter, if it agreed to pay $200 million in criminal and civil penalties negotiated as part of a plea bargain, according to people familiar with the matter. To avoid the higher penalty, which could derail equity financing commitments supporting its restructuring plan, PG&E opted to plead to the manslaughter charges.

Investors sent shares in the company up 12.47% on Monday, even as the Dow Jones Utility Average dropped 5.45%, according to FactSet.

PG&E filed for chapter 11 protection in January of last year, citing billions of dollars in liability costs it faces because of its role in sparking wildfires in 2017 and 2018 that collectively killed more than 100 people and destroyed about 15,700 homes.

PG&E is set to be arraigned on the charges April 24 in Butte County Superior Court.

The grand jury's indictment caps a yearlong criminal investigation led by Mr. Ramsey, with assistance from the office of California Attorney General Xavier Becerra. It examined the role PG&E's power lines played in sparking the Camp Fire, which destroyed the town of Paradise.

"PG&E acted with criminal negligence, which is a much higher standard than ordinary negligence," Mr. Ramsey said. "They acted in a way that created a high risk of death."

PG&E said that it hoped that by accepting a plea, both the company and community could focus on rebuilding.

"We cannot replace all that the fire destroyed, but our hope is that this plea agreement, along with our rebuilding efforts, will help the community move forward from this tragic incident," the company said.

The company declined to comment on negotiations before the plea agreement.

California fire investigators previously determined the fire started after a worn piece of metal known as a "C-hook" broke free from a transmission tower, releasing a high-voltage power line that sparked and ignited the brush below.

Document J000000020200324eg3o0000m





Life & Arts: Hip-Hop in the Jazz Club

By Larry Blumenfeld 
847 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Kassa Overall calls himself "a backpack jazz producer -- something like a cross between a jazz musician, a backpack rapper and a bedroom producer," he told me in an interview. Thus, "I Think I'm Good" (Brownswood) was created in both solitude and on the run, at spots throughout his adopted hometown, New York, and on the road.

Some of the material was improvised on bandstands at jazz clubs, some in recording studios and the homes of his colleagues. All of it was chopped up and recombined using the skeletal music studio Mr. Overall carries in his backpack, whenever and wherever inspiration struck, including, yes, his bedroom. He rode his bicycle to the apartment of Morgan Guerin, a brilliant multi-instrumentalist whose voice, via electric bass, drums and various woodwind instruments, is one of the album's defining elements. The Steinway at pianist Sullivan Fortner's home provided a basis for two tracks -- the ominous "Please Don't Kill Me" and the pent-up "Halfway House."

The album Mr. Overall ended up with sounds intimate and personal, its sung and rapped lyrics embedded with dark confessions and hopeful pleas. It is also a community project, involving 23 fellow musicians; like Mr. Overall, who is 37 years old, all of them are on the ascending side of careers defined more by musical curiosity and personal affiliations than by genre and style. (The pianists alone include Vijay Iyer, Craig Taborn, Aaron Parks, Courtney Bryan and Mr. Fortner.)

Mr. Overall's combination of live performances, studio recordings and remixes and his bridging of jazz and hip-hop cultures are nothing new. Musicians such as Kendrick Lamar and Flying Lotus have made these approaches something of a lingua franca just now. But Mr. Overall possesses a rare balance of skills and experience on both sides of the equation. He lives in both worlds. Early on, he was a drummer displaying savvy technique and uncommon sensitivity in pianist Geri Allen's band. He was also a rapper/producer, combining force and tenderness in collaboration with the hip-hop collective Das Racist. He flashed irrepressible charm alongside pianist Jon Batiste's band on "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert" and rapped stark lyrics about societal ills as a member of drummer Terri Lyne Carrington's Social Science band. His previous release, "Go Get Ice Cream and Listen to Jazz," furthered a jazz/hip-hop/neo-soul blend that trumpeter Roy Hargrove pioneered (and featured Hargrove, as recorded six months before his untimely death).

As an undergraduate at Oberlin College, Mr. Overall once confronted faculty that endorsed his jazz studies but disapproved of his passion for hip-hop "beat-making." He has long since reconciled that schism through his music. While in college, he also experienced manic episodes that required brief hospitalization; he ended up overmedicated. He now seeks to integrate his private struggles into the narratives of his songs.

On his previous album, Mr. Overall rapped: "What's the best stocks? Prison and pharmaceuticals." Here, his allusions to pain and paranoia -- "I hope they let me go tonight," during "Visible Walls," and "When I lay down to rest and it feel like a plot," in "I Know You See Me" -- blur the personal with the political. They can be heard as statements about incarceration or metaphors for imprisonment of the mind. The line, "I can't breathe when I get down," in "Please Don't Kill Me," might be shouted at a Black Lives Matter protest march or whispered over the phone by a depressive.

Like his lyrics, Mr. Overall's music is richly textured yet utterly accessible. Both lyrics and music are packed with references lent new meaning. The catchy melody of "Darkness In Mind" is Chopin's (from Prelude No. 4, as played by Mr. Fortner). The harmonies of "Please Don't Kill Me" are lifted from Coltrane's "Naima." Mr. Overall quotes liberally from lyrics by folk singer Phil Ochs and rapper Andre Benjamin. Yet his original commentary, sung and rapped, is riveting. His songs are memorable, sometimes constructed from seeming fragments. For "Find Me," he seized upon an improvisation by pianist Aaron Parks, as recorded during Mr. Overall's extended residency at Manhattan's Jazz Gallery. He "chopped and cropped" that passage, along with looped tracks of his own drumming. At a later performance, he triggered recorded samples of that material to stimulate new ideas. Then, back into the backpack studio, resulting in what he calls "a song upon a song upon a song."

One final track, "Was She Happy (For Geri Allen)," performed in duet with Mr. Iyer, is in tribute to his former employer, who died in 2017, and who was a brilliant yet enigmatic presence. "She was on a quest, she was on a journey," the lyrics declare. Mr. Overall's new album questions his own state of mind and whatever we might mean by "happy." It also begins to chart his journey, headed somewhere rewarding and new.

---

Mr. Blumenfeld writes about jazz for the Journal.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0005y





The Coronavirus Pandemic: India Steps Up Lockdown to Slow Spread

By Rajesh Roy 
645 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

NEW DELHI -- Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered all nonessential government offices and private businesses to shut and all Indians to remain at home for three weeks as the world's largest democracy ramps up efforts to slow the spread of the new coronavirus.

India, a country of 1.3 billion, has 519 confirmed cases of Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, and 10 deaths as of Tuesday, according to data from the federal Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.

In a televised address to the nation, Mr. Modi also announced the government would allocate 150 billion rupees ($2 billion) to set up health-care infrastructure such as isolation wards and to buy ventilators, testing kits and other necessary equipment.

"I appeal with folded hands, don't come out of your homes during the lockdown," Mr. Modi said in the address.

The lockdown will extend at least until April 14.

India has recently seen a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases and the government has scrambled to stay ahead of the spread.

On Sunday, the government ordered a one-day lockdown of the country and said all long-distance train service would be suspended across the country. All domestic and most international flights will also be suspended.

Schools in some cities had begun closing earlier, as well.

The country is one of several large developing nations that are somewhat off the main thoroughfares of global trade and transportation, which seemed to have delayed arrival of the virus.

Foreign tourists and Indians returning from abroad accounted for the bulk of the cases until last week, when officials began to acknowledge that the virus had started to spread among the domestic population.

India is also for the first time moving to allow private companies to provide testing for the coronavirus, after confining all testing to government labs. That, and the country's tight restrictions on who was tested, had resulted in some of the lowest testing rates of any country.

Mr. Modi said essential services, grocery stores and banks offering limited services would remain open.

The prime minister underscored how some of the world's leading economies have strained to contain the pandemic, despite their robust health-care systems, so it was imperative to take lessons from them.

"Social distancing seems to be the only option to combat coronavirus. There is no other way to be safe," Mr. Modi said.

Yet achieving the sort of distancing that countries like Italy and China have maintained will be challenging for India, many of whose citizens live in tightly packed slums in megacities such as Mumbai and Delhi. Many of the country's poorest earn the money they need to buy food the day they eat it.

Mr. Modi's announcement of the lockdown led to panic buying of groceries and medicines in several parts of the country.

The prime minister said in a tweet the federal and provincial governments would ensure availability of essential commodities.

To mitigate the economic impact of the pandemic, the federal government is working on an economic package that will be announced soon, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a televised press conference on Tuesday.

Most of the state governments in India have drawn up plans to provide free or subsidized food to millions of poor beneficiaries, as well as providing advance pensions payments and financial support to the poor for several months.

"We are front-loading our expenditure . . . to ensure people have sufficient money during this tough time," Thomas Issac, finance minister of the southern state of Kerela, told The Wall Street Journal.

The federal government has also asked states to dole out cash incentives to around 35,000 workers in the construction industry who might be rendered jobless or have to stay at home because of the lockdown.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0005l





Bond Downgrades Begin Amid Economy's Freeze

By Cezary Podkul and Gunjan Banerji 
626 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Credit-ratings firms have issued a wave of downgrades for corporate and government bonds as they reassess the ability of borrowers to repay their obligations amid the coronavirus slowdown.

Credit-ratings firms like S&P Global Inc. and Moody's Corp. have stripped away some pristine triple-A marks or moved other supposedly safe investment-grade bonds into junk territory.

The moves reflect what Moody's has called a "severe and extensive credit shock across many sectors, regions and markets." S&P has said that "the global recession is here and now." Fitch Ratings is bracing for "abrupt interruptions happening simultaneously across all major economies" as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.

The downgrades themselves can add to the turmoil in bond markets, causing damage well beyond the change in ratings for the bonds.

Seeking to stop the negative momentum in markets, the Federal Reserve on Monday broadened its efforts to include plans to purchase corporate bonds with high ratings. It is unclear, however, whether the moves will stem further downgrades.

Among the bonds facing potential downgrades are those tied to shopping malls, hotels, airlines, risky corporate borrowers and local governments. The reviews by ratings firms come after years of easing rating assumptions across various sectors.

Even in the face of such a severe stress, a triple-A grade should stay put since the rating is meant to indicate the debt is as riskless as a Treasury bond. But some triple-A bonds are already failing that test.

On Friday, S&P took away the triple-A grade from a $215 million bond backed by two mortgages on a giant mall in upstate New York. Local officials had ordered the mall, Destiny USA, and others in the area to be closed to slow the spread of the coronavirus. Other states are taking similar steps.

S&P's move was part of a larger downgrade of 60 securities linked to various malls. The Destiny-linked triple-A bond is now rated single-A by S&P. A spokesman for Destiny didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

Destiny's downgrade calls into question a popular transaction in which bond investors agreed to buy a deal backed entirely by mortgage payments from one property or borrower instead of a pool of loans. Last week Fitch placed all of its single-asset, single-borrower hotel deals on watch for possible downgrades.

By its own tally, S&P has now made more than 100 downgrades linked to the coronavirus, including on airlines like JetBlue Airways Corp., Southwest Airlines Co. and Spirit Airlines Inc.

Companies that have already been struggling are seeing their woes worsen. On Monday, S&P downgraded office-share company WeWork deeper into junk territory, citing its mounting cash flow and liquidity pressure. The high-profile SoftBank Group-backed company was already under stress after its failed initial public offering last year prompted a previous round of rating downgrades.

On Friday, Fitch said it would stress-test all of its ratings on structured securities known as collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, and warned it may put some on watch for negative rating actions. The deals often buy up loans from highly leveraged companies and sell bonds to investors backed by payments on those loans. S&P said it is reviewing 25 ratings from 15 CLO deals with large exposures to energy sectors for possible downgrades.

Municipal bonds tied to specific projects or taxes are also being downgraded. S&P recently cut the ratings on revenue bonds backed by a student housing project in Corpus Christi, Texas, by six notches, taking the debt from the lowest notch of investment-grade deep into junk territory.

Document J000000020200325eg3p00002





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Coronavirus Strikes at the Italian Family --- Tradition puts older generations at greater risk; 6,820 have died, most were over 60

By Margherita Stancati 
1,787 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

ROME -- The first call came on March 11. That's when Roberto Biglioli says he found out that his 81-year-old mother, Giuseppina, had passed away after battling the new coronavirus.

The second call came six days later, says Mr. Biglioli, a medical worker from near Bergamo, a northern Italian city hit hard by the pandemic. "A call that, while expected, no one would ever want to receive in their lifetime," he said. "My dear dad has also left us."

Italians across the peninsula are terrified their own parents or grandparents will be next. They have reason to worry. Covid-19, the respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus, has killed more people in Italy than anywhere else in the world, and the victims were overwhelmingly over 60.

Now, the whole country is hunkering down to protect them. The severe restrictions placed on daily life are shaking the very bedrock of Italian society: The Italian family.

Italy's way of life makes it unique in the West. It also left the country more vulnerable to the pandemic.

Two or three generations often live under the same roof, more so than in other parts of Western Europe. It's common for grandparents to look after their grandchildren on a daily basis, and for their adult children to look after them, once they become older. Now, efforts to combat the virus are putting an enormous strain on this social safety net.

"Our habits need to change, and they need to change now," Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said on March 10, when Italy became the first Western country to impose a nationwide lockdown. "We all need to give something up for the good of Italy. When I speak of Italy I speak of the people who are dear to us, our parents, our grandparents."

Italy's 60 million residents are forced to stay at home unless they can prove they need to be out, for instance to work or to buy essential goods, like groceries or drugs. Italians over the age of 65 -- around 14 million people, nearly a quarter of the population -- are discouraged from doing even that. Everyone else has been told to stay away from them.

Umberto Cremasoli, 77, and his wife used to see their twin granddaughters almost every day. After doctors discovered a coronavirus infection near their hometown of Casalpusterlengo on Feb. 20 -- the first in Italy's outbreak -- the elderly couple saw the two toddlers even more than usual.

The government responded to the outbreak by shutting down all schools and nurseries in their area. So the elderly couple looked after the two toddlers while their parents worked. As the number of sick in the surrounding region of Lombardy continued to rise, even seeing the children became too risky.

These days, no one is allowed into their apartment, not even their grandchildren, as they too could be carriers. The couple never go out. They have groceries and drugs delivered to their front door.

"We live in terror," said Mr. Cremasoli. "'You may have it and you may infect me.' That's the feeling we all have."

Before the outbreak, Mr. Cremasoli and his wife had an active social life. His wife, Maria Antonietta Scarioni, 68, used to meet up with friends at a local cafe almost daily. She also took Spanish language classes and ballroom dancing lessons at a community center for the elderly.

She knows of at least three people from the community center who got sick, two of whom died.

"It turned our life upside down because we are forced to stay at home," she adds. "But we have to follow the rules."

Global data shows that the new coronavirus is much deadlier for the old than it is for the young. That's particularly troubling for Italy, which has the world's second-oldest population after Japan.

Of the nearly 69,200 people who are known to have been infected with the virus in Italy, 6,820 have died. So far, the disease has spared children and teens, with zero deaths recorded under the age of 20, according to data from Italy's National Health Institute, the country's top disease-control body.

The number of dead starts climbing rapidly after the age of 60. In Italy, some 16% of people in their 70s who have tested positive to the coronavirus so far have died. For those in their 80s, the percentage is even higher, 24%.

The true fatality rates are likely lower, even within those age groups, since testing for the virus is mostly limited to those who show clear symptoms, meaning a possibly vast number of cases are not being counted, according to health experts.

In Lombardy, the northern region at the heart of Italy's outbreak, the health-care system is so overstretched that doctors aren't able to treat all patients who need care. In towns such as Bergamo and Brescia, doctors have been forced to choose who to give the last available beds in intensive-care units, privileging the younger and healthier patients over the older and frailer ones.

Aware that their older relatives might get only limited medical treatment, the priority for many Italian families is to make sure they never get sick at all.

Gianna Besson, 70, has been housebound for over two weeks, ever since her two sons forbade her from leaving her flat in Rome's Trastevere neighborhood. One of her sons lives in her same building, but is frantic about not coming near her. He leaves food and medicine for her outside her door, rings the bell and disappears before she has a chance to open it.The cleaning lady no longer comes.

"They decided I have to remain cooped up in my flat because I am more at risk than they are. I am reluctantly complying with their orders," says Ms. Besson.

Loneliness has been the hardest thing to get used to for Ms. Besson. "I feel the need to have physical contact with someone. It doesn't even have to be a hug, it could just be the touch of a hand," she says. "I'm very tempted to leave the house with the excuse of having to go to the pharmacy. I'm very tempted. If I didn't have children, I would've gone out."

In the northern city of Turin, in the foothills of the Alps, 64-year-old Anna Marcone is doing everything she can to insulate her 94-year-old mother from the outside world. The physiotherapist had to suspend their twice weekly sessions. The hairdresser, who came once a week, has stopped coming, too. Medical checkups have also been put on hold.

These days, it's Ms. Marcone who helps her mother with physiotherapy and who does her hair. "I've become a perfect coiffeuse," says Ms. Marcone, who has lived with her mother for decades. Until two years ago, so did her son Paolo.

"She's been such a big part of my life that I don't even consider her my grandmother. She's more than that," says Paolo Mussa, 31, who until last week would join his grandmother for regular meals.

"The least you can do is to protect them," says Ms. Marcone. "We are very conscious of what they did for us, so we are happy to be doing this for them. Love makes everything easier."

Multigenerational households like Ms. Marcone's are much more common in Italy than in other Western countries. In Italy, around 23% of between the ages of 30 and 49 live with their parents, compared with just 6.4% in the U.S., 5.2% in the U.K or 1% in neighboring France, according to data compiled by the University of Bonn.

Such living arrangements risk increasing the exposure of the elderly to the virus. Close contact between members of different generations in Italy could help explain why so many old people here are dying, according to a new research paper on the transmission of Covid-19, which found a correlation between countries where multigenerational households are common and higher fatality rates.

"If you share a house, it's very likely that other people will get it. But it applies more generally: What role do grandparents play in everyday life, in the organization of families?" says Christian Bayer, a professor of economics at the University of Bonn who co-wrote the paper. "It's not that in northern Europe you lock away the elderly, but maybe you don't meet them on a day-by-day basis."

Italy's experience is a warning sign for other regions where the virus is beginning to take hold with similar setups and traditions, such as the Middle East and Southern Europe.

Mr. Biglioli, the medical worker who lost his parents, says sacrifices are worth it.

Like many Italians, Mr. Biglioli lived in the same small town as his parents. His father Angelo was the unofficial photographer of Romano di Lombardia, a town of some 20,000 people south of Bergamo, documenting christenings, weddings and daily life there. Photography is a skill he taught his son and his grandson, Michele, from a young age.

"He used to gift me disposable cameras and take me into the darkroom with him," recalls Michele Biglioli, 28, who -- along with his parents and younger brother -- lived with his grandparents until the age of 14.

He continued to see them almost daily until a few weeks before they died, and took pictures of the aging couple.

"They were my main subjects," says Michele. "My grandparents were like parents to me. They were friends, a shoulder to lean on. When the world turned against me, they were always there for me."

When the couple developed the first symptoms, health authorities instructed them to self-isolate. No doctor came to visit them. Giuseppina Oggioni passed away in her home on March 11. Later that same day, Michele, his younger brother and their father rushed Angelo Biglioli to the hospital, in a last, desperate attempt to save him.

In the waiting room, Angelo stroked Michele's hand and told them all he loved them. They never saw each other again.

"Only leave your homes if you absolutely have to," says Roberto Biglioli.

"Do it out of respect for those who are no longer here with us, those who died because of this damned virus," he says. "Do it for those who are fighting for their lives in hospitals all over Italy. Above all, do it for yourselves."



Document J000000020200325eg3p0005w



The Coronavirus Pandemic: Workers, Businesses to Soon Feel Economic Pinch

By Justin Lahart 
555 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The American economy is in a race against time.

With measures to halt the spread of the virus intensifying, the U.S. is embarking on its sharpest downturn since at least the end of World War II. The states where nonessential businesses are shut down account for more than 40% of U.S. gross domestic product.

Many of those workers and businesses will face severe constraints quickly, surveys suggest. In two weeks time -- the period of a typical paycheck -- many workers will struggle to make ends meet. After a month, more than half of them could be in trouble. At that point, a fifth of small businesses with lost sales could be on the brink.

The stimulus the Federal Reserve announced will help. So would the fiscal spending package from Congress.

For the economy, the most important questions are how soon help will arrive, how ample it will eventually be and, above all, how long the coronavirus crisis will last. Between the big stimulus and plans by lenders to extend loans or offer grace periods on payments, consumers and businesses can manage a shutdown lasting several weeks.

Beyond that is uncharted territory. Most economists think the economy will shrink more than 10% in the second quarter, at an annual rate. But most are assuming that by the start of summer, the spread of the virus will have been contained and activity will begin to bounce back. That is no sure thing.

Small businesses, which account for about half of U.S. employment, according to the Small Business Administration, are among those most at risk. In a 2016 study, researchers at JPMorgan Chase Institute found that the median small business had a cash balance that would last just 27 days. Some were operating closer to the edge. The median retailer had a cash buffer that would last 19 days. The median restaurant's would last 16.

Many consumers can't last very long without a paycheck, either. In a survey conducted last year by research organization NORC at the University of Chicago, 31% of working adults said missing a single paycheck would mean that they couldn't cover necessities. An additional 20% said they couldn't miss more than one paycheck.

Many households also carry substantial debt. This month, the Federal Reserve reported that overall household debt stood at a record $16.1 trillion at the end of the quarter. While overall debt to income ratios are down, that is because mortgages have fallen since the financial crisis. Lower-income households, which are less likely to have mortgages, have higher levels of debt than before the crisis.

Industries employing low-wage workers play a big role in the economy. Food and beverage stores have seen a surge in sales and won't be affected by a shutdown. But they employed a seasonally adjusted 3.1 million workers as of February. Restaurants and bars, many of which have been ordered closed, employed 12.3 million.

Even a giant stimulus might not quickly temper the downturn because government payments could take significantly longer to arrive than the two weeks the Treasury Department has forecast. Evercore ISI strategists and former White House and Treasury officials Sarah Bianchi and Ernie Tedeschi suggest six weeks is more realistic.



Document J000000020200325eg3p0002u



Contagion Spreads at Rikers Island Jail --- Officials urge release of at-risk inmates, as dozens of staff and prisoners are infected

By Ben Chapman 
558 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A13A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The new coronavirus is spreading quickly through the Rikers Island jail complex in New York City, killing one Department of Correction employee and infecting dozens of inmates and staff who go in and out of the facility, said jail and health-care officials.

As of Monday, 50 inmates at Rikers Island had tested positive for the virus, according to the city's Department of Correction and its regulator, the Board of Correction. Thirty jail workers also had tested positive for the disease, city officials said. Just two days earlier, on Saturday, only 12 corrections workers and 19 detainees had tested positive, city officials said.

A Department of Correction investigator died March 15 after contracting the coronavirus, city officials said.

Overall, 14,776 people have tested positive for the virus in New York City, resulting in 131 deaths, city officials said Tuesday morning. Federal officials said the New York metro area had become a hot spot for the spread of the virus.

The outbreak has prompted Rikers Island officials to take new steps to fight the disease, including barring visitors to inmates.

Mayor Bill de Blasio coordinated with the city's district attorneys for the release of hundreds of inmates deemed at-risk for the virus. Some of the city's district attorneys, including prosecutors in Manhattan and Brooklyn, said they would stop prosecuting low-level offense to help stop overcrowding in jails.

But some jail officials and defense attorneys warned that the steps aren't enough to ensure the safety of staff and inmates at city jails, including the main facility at Rikers Island, where roughly 5,300 people are incarcerated, mostly while awaiting trial.

Ross MacDonald, chief physician of Rikers Island and chief medical officer of the New York City Health + Hospitals' Correctional Health Services, has urged officials to release as many inmates "as you possibly can."

"We cannot socially distance dozens of elderly men living in a dorm, sharing a bathroom," Dr. MacDonald wrote on Twitter on March 18. "Think of a cruise ship recklessly boarding more passengers each day."

Health officials warned city correctional officials in early March about Rikers' potential to become an incubator for coronavirus. Before the outbreak picked up speed this month, more than 5,000 inmates were housed in Rikers regularly.

Defense attorneys, union officials and members of the Board of Correction called for releasing inmates and safer working conditions for jail employees.

In a letter to prosecutors and correction officials on Saturday, interim Board of Correction Chair Jacqueline Sherman urged them to "rapidly decrease" the jail city population and "immediately remove from jail all people at high risk of dying of Covid-19 infection."

New York's largest criminal-defense organization, the Legal Aid Society, filed a lawsuit in New York State Supreme Court on Tuesday on behalf of 32 individuals in pretrial detention or being held on parole violations.

The suit seeks the immediate release of the inmates on the grounds that continuing to incarcerate them constitutes deliberate indifference to the risk of serious medical harm in violation of the 14th Amendment and state constitutional rights to due process.

The city Law Department didn't respond to a request for comment on the suit.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0009c





U.S. News: States Scramble to Meet Record Unemployment Claims

By Sarah Chaney and Eric Morath 
660 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Americans are waiting anxiously for unemployment benefits as state unemployment systems adjust to record-high levels of claims in the wake of the new coronavirus.

States say they are waiving waiting periods for accruing benefits and bulking up with staff to field calls and quickly process claims. But the unemployment-insurance system wasn't designed to move as quickly as the coronavirus is knocking the U.S. labor market off course.

"States are at a historically low level of administrative funding, but processing a historically high level of claims," said Michele Evermore, policy analyst at the National Employment Law Project, which advocates for lower-wage workers. "There are mechanisms to staff up quickly, but it's never smooth, easy or perfect."

Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal estimated that 1.5 million new jobless claims were filed last week. The U.S. Labor Department will release a national compilation of claims on Thursday. The highest number of new claims on record is 695,000 filed in the week ended Oct. 2, 1982.

Georgia's labor department website tells applicants to expect to wait. "Due to an extremely high volume of unemployment claims filed as a result of the Covid-19 outbreak, individuals may experience a delay in requesting weekly benefit payments," the website said Monday afternoon.

Ohio's call center and website to register for unemployment benefits experienced hiccups earlier on Monday.

"This system was not built for a crisis," said Ohio Lt. Gov. Jon Husted at a news conference. "It was built to take care of what we could expect on a regular or even robust basis."

Tunc Samli, 46 years old, was laid off in early March from a Washington, D.C., company that arranges passports and visas for corporate clients. He tried every day last week to apply for unemployment benefits on the district's website but the site would crash.

On Monday, he waited on hold for two hours trying to reach someone at the Department of Employment Services, but no one answered. "That's a frustration," he said. "I'm waiting and no one is answering, and I need information."

Washington Mayor Muriel Bowser said at a news conference Tuesday that those calling for claims assistance are likely to experience long hold times. The city's claims website works on computers, but not on cellphones, frustrating users.

Kelly Medina, 57, applied for unemployment benefits in Colorado last week when the coronavirus shut down the restaurant where he worked. As he understood it, it would take four to six weeks to receive his first unemployment check, and he didn't see any guidance from Colorado's labor department that the waiting period to receive benefits would be shortened.

"If it takes too long, maybe I need to look for a different career," he said. But added, "there's nobody hiring right now."

Colorado residents who successfully submitted their claim online early last week should receive a benefit payment this week, a spokeswoman for Colorado's labor department said.

On Monday, Colorado's labor department added 90 staff members to the customer call center and plans to add more.

The federal government and states should look at promoting lesser-known programs in the unemployment insurance system as a way to mitigate the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on workers, said Katharine Abraham, a University of Maryland labor economist and former economic adviser to President Obama.

In 26 states, covering about 70% of the workforce, states can pay unemployment insurance benefits to two workers who share a full-time job by each working part time. The concept is common in Europe but little used in the U.S. At the end of February, 11,564 workers received work-share benefits, versus 2.1 million in regular state programs that typically require a person to be laid off before accessing jobless payments.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0008w





Potential $15 Billion Revenue Hit in N.Y.

By Jimmy Vielkind 
501 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A13A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

State revenue could fall by as much as $15 billion as a result of the novel coronavirus and its effect on the economy, New York's top budget official said.

New York State Budget Director Robert Mujica, an appointee of Gov. Andrew Cuomo, said the state expects gross domestic product to shrink in the second quarter of this year and possibly beyond.

Last week, Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli estimated state revenue would decline by $4 billion to $7 billion; Mr. Mujica said his latest estimate is a decrease of $9 billion to $15 billion.

The drop comes as state lawmakers work to develop a new spending plan before the state fiscal year ends on March 31. In January, Mr. Cuomo proposed a $178 billion budget, of which $105.8 billion covered operations. It assumed roughly $88 billion in state revenue, mostly from personal income taxes.

In an interview Monday with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Mujica said the Democratic governor's original proposal is "no longer viable," absent massive assistance from the federal government to maintain planned outlays for school aid and public-worker salaries.

As a result of the continued uncertainty caused by the coronavirus pandemic, Mr. Mujica said, the governor is seeking legal authority from state legislators to make unilateral budget adjustments during the fiscal year if revenue declines.

"I think what's critical in the budget is for the legislature to give us the tools to be able to stabilize our finances and make the decisions in the budget to bridge us through this," Mr. Mujica said.

Spokesmen for Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie and Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins didn't respond to a request for comment about Mr. Mujica's statement.

Budget negotiations were already contentious before the virus struck. Mr. Cuomo set up a task force to reduce Medicaid spending by $2.5 billion to help bridge a $6.1 billion deficit. He also said he would change the state's new bail law -- which eliminated cash bail for most misdemeanor and nonviolent felony offenses -- and legalize recreational marijuana as part of the budget.

Mr. Cuomo said Monday that he would still like both items included in the budget. State Sen. Liz Krueger, a Democrat from Manhattan who sponsors a bill to legalize marijuana, said there were still disagreements about how to distribute new revenue and that lawmakers might be better off waiting to try to negotiate a solution.

The governor's task force on Medicaid recommended decreasing the reimbursement rates for hospitals and nursing homes.

Some legislators are calling for raising taxes to plug the existing deficit. Mr. Cuomo said last week he opposed any tax increases. Mr. Mujica said state income taxes are disproportionately paid by the highest-earning New Yorkers, who were severely affected by downturns in the stock market.

"With negative growth, taxes don't appear to be the answer," Mr. Mujica said. "You can't get blood from a stone."

Document J000000020200325eg3p0008e





Judge Backs Regulator On Coins

By Dave Michaels 
258 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission prevailed in a key stage of its cryptocurrency enforcement crackdown, as a federal judge issued an injunction halting Telegram Group Inc. from distributing its digital coins.

U.S. District Judge P. Kevin Castel wrote the SEC had shown a "substantial likelihood of success" in prevailing against Telegram, which was accused of breaking investor protection laws when it sold $1.7 billion in cryptocurrency. Dubai-based Telegram and other startups pushed forward with lucrative, unregulated fundraisings despite the SEC's warnings in 2017 they were subject to rules restricting how companies raise capital.

Telegram's argument that its deal was exempt from oversight because its investors were sophisticated venture capitalists didn't win over Judge Castel. The judge wrote that the success of the deal depended on allowing those investors to resell the digital coins to the public. The injunction halts that process while the litigation plays out. The judge didn't conclusively rule for the SEC, despite the agency's request that he do so.

The court fight carries high stakes for the SEC, whose enforcement division has mostly chased scammers that fleeced investors with fake crypto projects and startups that raised a few million dollars without following SEC rules. Telegram had the advice of a Wall Street law firm before raising funds, while the investors in its digital-coin sale included the Silicon Valley venture-capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers as well as executives from Fortress Investment Group and SoftBank Group Corp.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0008g





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Global AIDS Warrior on the Front Lines --- Deborah Birx is a central player in the Trump administration's fight against the virus

By Brett Forrest 
828 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Deborah Birx was leading an AIDS conference in Johannesburg on Feb. 27 when she received a call from the State Department summoning her to Washington to help combat a new disease that was about to change the way that all Americans lived.

In less than a month, Dr. Birx has become a central player in the Trump administration's fight against the pandemic and a mainstay in the coronavirus task force's public White House briefings, urging people to recognize the severity of the threat.

"Can we communicate effectively enough so that the American people take these guidelines seriously?" Dr. Birx asked in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. "Because that's the only thing that's going to change the course of this pandemic."

As the U.S. coronavirus response coordinator, Dr. Birx has been a regular presence at the White House, invariably wearing colorful scarfs that she said she has collected along her international travels and that are representative of "the global community response that's needed now."

A global-health expert on immunology and vaccine research, Dr. Birx has spent decades combating the spread of HIV/AIDS. Since 2014, she has served as ambassador-at-large in the State Department as the U.S. global AIDS coordinator, managing an effort across multiple government departments.

"It's why they sought her out for this particular role," said Brian Honermann, the deputy director of public policy for Amfar, an AIDS research foundation, who has worked closely with Dr. Birx. "The ability to coordinate across different agencies."

Dr. Birx, 63 years old, grew up in Philadelphia and earned a medical degree at Pennsylvania State University. Her father was an electrical engineer, her mother a nursing professor -- an apt background for a daughter who ultimately would apply mathematical models to public-health problems, using numbers to combat illness.

Dr. Birx served 20 years as an Army doctor, attaining a colonel's rank while working on immunology and vaccine research at the Pentagon and the National Institutes of Health. She led the military's HIV research program at Walter Reed Army Medical Center before leaving the service in 2005 to join the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

The George W. Bush administration had recently established the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or Pepfar, to coordinate the aid and assistance that the U.S. government disbursed internationally to combat and contain the disease.

As the director of HIV/AIDS initiatives at CDC, Dr. Birx administered about half of Pepfar's program, and in the process built a far-reaching network of global public-health officials.

"She's a very good manager," said Tom Frieden, who was CDC director from 2009 to 2017. "She's politically very savvy. She works hard. And she's very focused on achieving results."

In 2014, Dr. Birx effectively received a promotion when then-President Obama appointed her to lead Pepfar as the fourth U.S. global AIDS coordinator. Still serving in that position, she oversees a budget of $4 billion.

"She drives a hard program," Mr. Honermann said. "She expects outcomes. She has a vision of what needs to happen."

Dr. Birx is one of the few remaining Obama appointees in the Trump administration.

When the coronavirus appeared in China last year, Dr. Birx was particularly concerned about its possible spread, according to a senior coronavirus task force official. She had worked in that country during the SARS epidemic of 2002-03 and had witnessed the troubles it had wrought. She also realized that the subsequent increase in international travel among upwardly mobile Chinese might exacerbate the scattering of this new virus, the official said.

After the virus jumped China's borders, Dr. Birx was in touch with officials on the newly formed White House coronavirus task force.

The task force, then led by Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, was charged with developing the administration's program to mitigate the spread of the virus. Dr. Birx began feeding general epidemics and modeling data to her colleagues to assist the effort, the task force official said.

As the epidemic began to take root in the U.S., President Trump installed Vice President Mike Pence to lead the task force. Dr. Birx was quickly on a plane from Africa.

As the administration has at times struggled to maintain a consistent message, Dr. Birx occasionally has been caught in the middle. During a White House briefing on March 13, she held up a flow chart illustrating a Google project that Mr. Trump said was imminent. However, the announcement was premature, given the project isn't complete. The White House had previewed the announcement with Google to ensure accuracy, a person familiar with the matter said. Google representatives didn't respond to a request to comment.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0008y





Mayor Tightens Budget, as Finances Squeezed

By Katie Honan 
485 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A13A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio called on city agencies to make cuts to services as revenue drops and the cost to fight the novel coronavirus rises.

Mr. de Blasio this week said he is looking to trim $1.3 billion through the agencywide cuts. The city's budget office on Tuesday began working with agencies to establish cost-savings plans.

It is a rare budget trimming for the mayor, who has grown the city's budget each year since taking office in 2014. But with the state also expecting a big drop in revenues, and without guaranteed help from the federal government, New York City will have to look out for itself, he said.

"We are on our own at this moment trying to sort it out," Mr. de Blasio said. "We know the state's going through a real tough time, so we have to take actions to protect our most vital services."

The city is hoping to avoid layoffs with other cuts, the mayor said.

Comptroller Scott Stringer released a report Monday that predicts the city could lose between $4.8 billion and $6 billion in city tax revenues, depending on how long the pandemic lasts, as well as the restrictions put in place to stop its spread.

The biggest losses will come from personal incomes, sales, hotel, business incomes and other taxes, he said.

"We are staring down a fiscal emergency and need the federal government to step up by injecting as much funding into our city's economy as possible -- our health-care system, infrastructure, transit network, and so much more depend on it," the mayor said.

Property taxes -- the biggest revenue generator in the city -- are due April 15. Mr. de Blasio said this week that the city badly needs the revenue, but on Tuesday he reminded property owners about aid programs such as a deferral-payment program for those who qualify.

"Revenue is being stressed very, very deeply," he said Sunday. "It is not my instinct to take away other forms of revenue because we literally will not be able to pay for basic services."

The independent watchdog group Citizens Budget Commission called on the mayor to increase the target for savings to $3 billion, as the city faces unprecedented uncertainties.

"It needs to be much bigger than what's been done in the past and it needs to be focused on efficiency," said Maria Doulis, of the CBC. The current economic pause and shutdown is different than anything the city has ever seen, she added.

In January, Mr. de Blasio presented his $95.3 billion preliminary budget, which was in the process of being evaluated by the City Council when the virus began to spread.

The council canceled its budget hearings because of the crisis. The final executive budget must be approved by the end of June.

Document J000000020200325eg3p0009b





Heard on the Street
Banks Can Do More, But Let's Be Careful

By Telis Demos 
521 words
25 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B14
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

If the Federal Reserve's latest round of massive liquidity injections don't succeed in unclogging markets, it may be faced with another tough choice: whether to lift more constraints on banks.

Monday morning's announcement of bond purchases and another bevy of measures to lend beyond banks and directly to credit markets to help facilitate small-business consumer lending appear to have calmed the market for the moment. Now the next "break-glass-in-case-of-emergency" maneuver might be altering some of the constraints put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.

As massive as the dollar figures have been for the Fed's daily interventions in the repurchase agreement, or repo, market, at times they were like buckets of water being poured over a funnel: Only so much could reach their ultimate beneficiaries -- companies and investors grasping for cash.

The funnel in this analogy is banks. The Fed's daily repo operations, at times as much $1 trillion on offer, have only seen a portion of those amounts taken up. That isn't necessarily a good sign. The liquidity is still needed, but it is having a hard time moving through the system, having to pass first through the primary dealers, which include the likes of big banks such as JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup, as well as smaller firms that may use those banks for clearing.

These repo operations aren't just paperwork. Dealers have to expand their balance sheets to take advantage. For example, though dealers may in many cases be taking on offsetting positions with the Fed and with clients, it still increases their total exposure relative to their capital -- a form of leverage.

Banks have regulatory limits, their own limits and the market's implicit judgment on how leveraged they can be, which in effect limits how much repo they can channel.

The Fed may ultimately need to release banks from more constraints on their balance sheets, as it has done in some respects for their liquidity. Already, for example, banks that make purchases of assets from money-market funds to support them using money from the Fed's backstop facility will be able to exclude those assets from capital calculations. This particular design makes sense, as those would now be essentially riskless assets with the government's credit guarantee.

But to ensure that banks don't themselves become new overleveraged problems, the Fed needs to keep making sure that whatever banks need to load onto their balance sheet for the sake of the system isn't just compounding risk or leverage in the system.

For bank investors, relaxing leverage rules to buy government-backed assets is a mixed blessing. They can worry less about banks setting off regulatory alarm bells, but it also may mean they are taking on low-profit activities, like repo intermediation, that will cost them to administer. It will be extremely difficult to model banks' profitability in the future.

But that certainly beats fretting about banks' survival.



page,5043 

Document J000000020200325eg3p0008h



U.S. News: Outbreak Causes Delays on Death Row

By Jess Bravin 
373 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The coronavirus pandemic is disrupting executions planned for the spring, providing an unlikely reprieve for condemned inmates whose appeals were nearly exhausted.

Last week, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals issued 60-day stays for two men scheduled to die this month, citing "the current health crisis and the enormous resources needed to address that emergency." In Tennessee, the state Supreme Court is weighing a petition seeking a six-month reprieve for Oscar Franklin Smith, who is slated to die June 4.

Inmates in other states with calendered executions are expected to file similar actions, said Robert Dunham, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a nonprofit that is critical of capital punishment and compiles widely accepted statistical data about the practice.

The prisoners' concern, Mr. Dunham said, is that emergency restrictions on movement across the nation are impeding the ability of their lawyers to investigate and prepare the last-minute appeals and clemency applications that typically are filed after death warrants are issued.

"It's dangerous for the investigators to go out to interview people and it's dangerous for the people they want to interview," he said. "Because it would be medically and professionally irresponsible to proceed, all the investigations in those cases have come to a halt."

One condemned Texas inmate, John William Hummel, 44 years old, who had been scheduled to die on March 18 for the 2009 killing of his pregnant wife and his father-in-law in Kennendale, Texas, argued in legal papers that his execution could itself help spread the coronavirus.

"Executions are solemn and stressful affairs [that] involve a substantial number of people functioning in various roles," his motion says. "Gathering all these people in one location presents a substantial risk of transmission of Covid-19/Coronavirus if anyone is infected."

Prosecutors wrote in reply that whatever Mr. Hummel's "concern for the health and safety of others who will participate in or witness his execution," he lacked legal standing "to complain on their behalf."

Despite the state's assertion that it was ready to go ahead with the execution, the Court of Criminal Appeals issued a stay on March 16.

Document J000000020200326eg3q00030





World News: Saudis Indicted in Killing

By David Gauthier-Villars 
178 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

ISTANBUL -- Turkish prosecutors indicted 20 Saudi nationals, including two with ties to the Saudi crown prince, on charges related to the killing of dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Turkey.

Prosecutors on Wednesday said they had completed their investigation into the death of Mr. Khashoggi, who was killed inside Saudi Arabia's consulate general in Istanbul in October 2018. They charged a former deputy intelligence chief and a former royal adviser with instigating the killing and 18 other people with torture and deliberate murder.

After the Central Intelligence Agency said the kingdom's crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, likely ordered the journalist's death, some Turkish officials said he should be included in the scope of any indictment.

The crown prince has cast the Khashoggi killing as a rogue operation and denied involvement. A Saudi official didn't return calls seeking comment. Turkish prosecutors, however, accused only the former deputy intelligence chief, Ahmed al Assiri, and the former royal adviser, Saud al Qahtani, of plotting Mr. Khashoggi's killing.

Document J000000020200326eg3q0000m





Police Enforce Virus Restrictions

By Ben Chapman 
472 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A12A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The coronavirus emergency in New York City has led to a blitz of inspections by police officers to crack down on socializing and dining out.

New York Police Department officers have conducted more than 66,000 inspections of businesses, public parks and other sites in the city, for violations of virus-related mandates since March 17, police officials said.

The NYPD has been tasked with ensuring the public follow a number of directives issued by New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, including rules that prohibit the operation of bars and restaurant dining rooms, mandate the closure of many businesses and order the dispersal of gatherings of any size.

Police officers have taken enforcement action in only a handful of cases. Since enforcement began, officers have issued 63 warnings and five summonses and made two arrests. Messrs. de Blasio and Cuomo have said gatherings in parks remain an issue.

NYPD Chief of Patrol Fausto Pichardo said in an interview Wednesday that officers have encountered widespread compliance with the new rules, which continue to be updated.

"It's pretty fluid and happens very quickly," Chief Pichardo said of officers' enforcement of the rules. "New Yorkers are adapting and being very compliant with us."

Chief Pichardo said NYPD officers conduct daily inspections of sites located within their usual patrol areas to take advantage of officers' knowledge of neighborhoods and previously established relationships with residents and business owners. The NYPD has about 36,000 uniformed officers on patrol, police officials said.

The officers regularly visit businesses, restaurants and bars to ensure they aren't serving patrons on site, Chief Pichardo said, and have encountered relatively few establishments breaking rules. A handful of illegal bars have been cited, he said, including an unlicensed bar in Queens where a bartender and bouncer were arrested on Saturday. Patrons at the bar were admonished, he said.

After Mr. Cuomo issued a set of rules on Friday that mandated the close of nonessential businesses to reduce the spread of the coronavirus, Chief Pichardo said some salons and barbershops misunderstood the new edict and continued to operate. Officers issued warnings to 31 of those establishments in the days after Mr. Cuomo's order, he said, but noncompliance has since become rare.

Compliance with rules prohibiting gatherings in parks and mandating social distance of at least 6 feet between individuals has proven more troublesome. Elected officials including Mr. Cuomo have said that too many New Yorkers continue to congregate in city parks. Mr. de Blasio has said he is considering a decision to close public playgrounds if the crowds persist.

Chief Pichardo said officers have encountered few prohibited gatherings, with the exception of pickup-basketball games. Most often, he said, officers simply tell players to disperse and they comply.

Document J000000020200326eg3q0008p





Banking & Finance: Bank Stress Tests Pale Next to the Pandemic's Wallop

By David Benoit 
570 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Teams inside the nation's biggest banks are hunkered down, working out how they would handle a nightmare economic scenario dreamed up by the Federal Reserve. Turns out, reality is worse.

The annual stress tests for the biggest banks, due April 6, are meant to gauge if banks would survive a hypothetical recession that sends the stock market plunging, oil into a tailspin, loan defaults rising and unemployment to society-shattering highs.

In recent years, the banks looked strong enough to manage those conditions, giving regulators comfort that the U.S. financial system is stable. In turn, banks have been allowed to return billions of dollars to shareholders through dividends and stock buybacks.

The new coronavirus has some wondering if this year it is even worth it.

Some economists are predicting that the current downturn could be sharper and reach further than the worst-case scenario on this year's test, which the Fed refers to as "severely adverse."

"The severely adverse scenario looks pretty rosy right now," said Pete Gilchrist, executive vice president of Novantas Inc., a bank services company.

For instance, the Fed's severe recession imagines U.S. gross domestic product dropping 9.9%, unemployment hitting 6.1% and the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling to 18623 by the end of June.

Last week, Goldman Sachs economists projected a 24% drop in second-quarter GDP, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said unemployment could hit 20% without government intervention. The Dow closed at 18592 Monday, then rallied to 21201 Wednesday.

Bank stocks have been hit harder than the broader market as industry profits are likely to plunge and loan losses jump.

But so far, analysts, bankers and the public don't broadly have the same worries they did during the 2008 financial crisis about whether big banks would survive. Banks have spent much of the past decade shoring up capital levels, and they have reined in some of their riskier activities after a regulatory crackdown.

As of now, the banks and Fed are operating as scheduled, even as the central bank is also rolling out extraordinary measures designed to keep markets functioning. The Fed on Tuesday said it would relax some examination work, particularly at smaller banks, but that big banks should still submit their plans.

In the stress tests, the Fed devises two scenarios: one a baseline and one that is generally a spiced-up version of 2008. It hands the banks spreadsheets detailing how the stock market, income and other metrics would collapse and then slowly recover. The banks run their models to figure out how they envision using capital, including dividends and share buybacks, and then hand the Fed reams of data it uses to run its own models. This year, how the banks perform will determine the capital level they must stay above.

The banks at this point have mostly run their models, and it is too late to insert the world's far more alarming crisis, people familiar with the process said.

Bankers are telling the Fed the results, typically released in June, will be irrelevant given how rapidly coronavirus has slammed the brakes on the economy and the unknown impact that will have on everything from consumer spending to bank balance sheets. The big lenders already have temporarily halted buybacks after the coronavirus was declared a pandemic.

Document J000000020200326eg3q00031





Next in Line Are Poor, Unprepared Nations

By Saeed Shah in Islamabad and Joe Parkinson in Johannesburg 
1,938 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The new coronavirus is now taking off in the world's poorest countries, which join the battle with even fewer weapons than developed nations, some of which have fumbled the pandemic's early stages.

From Venezuela to Pakistan to the Democratic Republic of Congo -- and nearly every developing country between -- confirmed cases have started to spike in recent days, a sign the contagion is advancing exponentially, disease-control experts say.

"Extraordinary action is required if we are to prevent a human catastrophe of enormous proportions in our country," said President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa, among the nations hardest hit by the 1980s AIDS epidemic. Addressing the country Monday night, he announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown to be enforced by the military.

South Africa on Wednesday declared 709 confirmed cases of coronavirus, a number the government said has risen sixfold in a week and could rise to hundreds of thousands without decisive action.

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ordering a nationwide shutdown, said Tuesday in a televised address: "I appeal with folded hands, don't come out of your homes."

China, where the outbreak began, had its powerful government to throw at the coronavirus, which across the globe as of Wednesday had infected more than 450,000 and left more than 20,000 dead with Covid-19, the disease the virus causes, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. the World Health Organization. South Korea could react quickly thanks in part a technologically sophisticated economy. And the West despite its struggles, has robust health-care systems, wealth and deep-rooted institutions to battle the contagion's spread.

The world's poorest areas -- Africa, parts of Latin America, and Southeast and South Asia -- start with few of those advantages. Their health-care systems and social mechanisms to fight the virus often aren't just at risk of being overwhelmed, many join the epidemic already overwhelmed.

Off the beaten track of global trade, these countries initially saw a slower rate of infections. Now the number of confirmed cases is surging.

Cases have suddenly spiked in Pakistan, with 210 million people and a per capita daily income of $3.50, spurred partly by its proximity to Iran, a middle-income nation slammed by the virus. By Wednesday morning, cases there had doubled from fourdays earlier to 991, official figures showed, a growth rate health experts say indicates rampant spread of the disease.

According to an internal Pakistani government assessment, if steps aren't taken to stem the spread of the virus, cases could reach 20 million in the country.

Cases in Africa on Wednesday rose to more than 2,400 in 43 countries, according to the African Union, triple the number -- and in one-quarter more countries -- than on Friday. The African Union released data Saturday mapping the first 40 days of infection that suggested the continent is on the same trajectory as European nations, where the virus has exploded.

A dozen African nations are experiencing community transmission, the phase when the disease spreads rapidly within a locale without massive efforts to slow it through lockdowns and social distancing, according to the World Health Organization.

Cases in India have risen nearly fivefold, from 114 on March 16 to 562 confirmed cases on Wednesday. Without taking mitigating steps, India would have 300 million to 400 million cases before July's end, according to Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, a think tank based in Washington and New Delhi. He said that after India's announcement on Tuesday of a 21-day shutdown, those figures could be reduced by 80%-90%, depending on compliance.

India "is in the very early stage of the avalanche," said T. Jacob John, a retired professor of virology at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, India.

Testing levels are so low in many developing countries they could be sitting on an unknown monumental problem. Indonesia had tested 7.4 people out of every million as of March 20, according to figures collated by Our World in Data, a research project. South Korea had tested at a proportion 800 times higher by the same date, an approach credited with helping it gain control over the spread.

It isn't inevitable that the coronavirus will have a worse impact in the developing world, and some factors could mitigate its impact in the poorest countries. Africa has the world's youngest population -- average age, 20, according to the U.N. -- and South Asia's populations are nearly as young; Covid-19 mortality rates rise rapidly above age 65. There is hope, but no clear evidence so far, that generally hotter climates will hamper the virus's spread as with the flu once summer comes.

Some nations have strong militaries that could enforce mitigation measures or already have. Militaries in Sudan and South Africa will be on the streets enforcing lockdowns. Pakistan on Monday called out its military, the country's most powerful institution, to deal with the crisis.

The vulnerability most of these countries share is giant urban slums where hundreds of millions live with poor sanitation and no plumbing. Basic practices to prevent the virus's spread, such as regular hand-washing, can be impossible given the scarcity of clean water. Residents crowd into vehicles to reach jobs that often barely cover food and shelter. Some 587 million Africans, almost 60% of the continent's urban residents, live in such slums, according to the United Nations.

Aggravating their vulnerability is the number living with other diseases -- underlying conditions susceptible to Covid-19. An estimated 2.5 million people in South Africa with HIV aren't taking antiretroviral drugs. India's rates of diabetes are high, as are respiratory issues from air pollution.

On Johannesburg's outskirts in the mud-strewn alleys of Diepsloot, an informal settlement of roughly 400,000, there isn't much debate about what will happen if the virus takes root. Blessing Nyondo, a gardener living in a one-room house with five family members, said it would quickly overwhelm the area's meager services: "We don't have access to the basics, let alone enough to deal with a crisis."

Nearby, people queued to use fetid public toilets and communal taps.

"Social distancing is impossible here," said Peter Ndlovu, on his way to the taxi rank. "We are supposed to be two meters apart but we live side to side."

For many of the world's estimated 70 million refugees, the conditions are worse. Sprawling camps in more than a dozen African nations, some housing up to 250,000 people, are regularly plagued by disease and violence. Some refugee settlements can't provide shelter from conflicts that could intensify during the virus outbreak.

When leaders do act in anticipation of a coming crisis, the efforts can collide with on-the-ground realities, as Congo found. Doctors there were expected next month to declare victory over a three-year Ebola epidemic that ripped through rural communities. These teams of health professionals, experienced disease fighters with no illusions about the challenges, are redeploying to cities in preparation for the coronavirus.

Yet when doctors set up a quarantined section of the country's largest hospital in Kinshasa, population 12 million, other patients fled onto the streets when the first Covid-19 patient arrived.

Dr. Diafuka Saila-Ngita, a Congolese infectious-diseases expert, expects his team to be overwhelmed. "You cannot call yourself a soldier if you have never been to war," he said. "We have been to war and the most recent outbreak [of Ebola] gave us a lot of lessons, but Covid is a bigger challenge."

Much of the Congolese population has refused to heed government warnings, crowding bars and markets. Defying a state ban on large public gatherings, church services still welcome thousands. Commuters still pack ferries plying the Congo River dividing Kinshasa and Brazzavile, neighboring Republic of Congo's capital.

In Congo, "There is a lot of misinformation about coronavirus in the country, this is exactly what we have been going through with Ebola," said Kate Moger, the regional vice president for International Rescue Committee in Congo. "Many residents still believe coronavirus is a hoax, and this ultimately complicates response efforts."

Other African countries are even less prepared: The continent has an average of two doctors for 10,000 people in cities, according to the WHO. By contrast, Italy, with 41 doctors per 10,000, is overstretched.

In South Sudan, the ministry of health says it has just 24 isolation beds for a country of 13 million. Malawi's health ministry says there are about 25 isolation beds in public hospitals serving 17 million. The main infectious-diseases hospital in Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, has none, according to the Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights.

Burkina Faso, under siege from jihadist groups, has said it doesn't have the resources to deal with the outbreak, even as it confirmed the death of its parliament's vice president from the disease and the infection of four cabinet ministers.

In Pakistan, officials saw early on the threat posed by the raging epidemic next door in Iran, one of the first countries the disease overwhelmed. Iran wasn't able to hold Pakistani pilgrims, who had visited the center of Iran's outbreak, the city of Qom, on its side due to the crisis there. Some 5,000 came pouring over to Pakistan at once, said Pakistani officials, who set up border quarantine camps to isolate them.

Only one building was available for quarantine use at the bordercrossing, which was soon so crowded people were sleeping in halls and tents. The camps devolved into filthy, little-monitored hubs of spread for the virus, according to some of those kept there. Pakistan's health minister and prime minister have conceded conditions there were poor but say the border is remote with few facilities.

As they arrive home, the people are being tested. Regional authorities have set up facilities where these returnees can be quarantined a second time. Seventy percent of Pakistan's cases have come from those who have passed through the Iran-border quarantine, according to provincial governments.

In many poorer countries, the starvation threat could outweigh the coronavirus specter, conspiring against mitigating measures. While Pakistan's four provinces, which have broad autonomy, moved independently to a lockdown by Monday, Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan -- who has repeatedly warned against stringent lockdowns, saying that poor would suffer -- on Tuesday called the moves "driven by fear that's led to overreaction."

"If I was leading Italy or France, I would have no problem imposing a curfew," said Mr. Khan. "But here, if you can't provide food, at the doorstep, to those who live in slums, a curfew can't work."

Pakistani authorities announced Tuesday the country would provide 10 million poor households with $20 a month to help cope with the shutdown.

In the ramshackle Gadap Town district of Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, Shakila Asghar works at a towel-manufacturing factory, paid only on days there is work. Those living around her can afford at most two or three days of food before working to buy more, she said, adding that those in Karachi's factories typically earn $2.60 to $3.80 a day.

"We don't know if we will get this virus," she said, "but what I do know is that we get hungry three times a day."

---

Nicholas Bariyo in Kampala and Waqar Gillani in Islamabad contributed to this article.



Document J000000020200326eg3q0008s



The Coronavirus Pandemic: Europe Splits Over Proposed New Debt to Fight Virus

By Tom Fairless 
588 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

European leaders are preparing to spar Thursday about whether to issue common debt to counter economic pain from the new coronavirus and ease pressure on embattled countries such as Italy, reviving memories of the region's sovereign-debt crisis nearly a decade ago.

Europe's response to the fast-moving economic crisis has so far been uneven, with rich northern countries, including Germany, unveiling massive fiscal-support packages aimed at shielding businesses and workers, while those in the highly indebted south employ more modest measures. That status could aggravate an economic gap that ultimately threatens the future of the currency union.

In an effort to bridge that gap, the leaders of France, Italy, Spain and six other countries called in a letter Wednesday for the creation of a common European debt instrument that could support weaker countries.

"The case for such a common instrument is strong since we are all facing a symmetric external shock for which no country bears responsibility," said the letter, which was sent to Charles Michel, president of the European Council, which groups leaders of EU countries. Funds generated could be used to finance investments in health care and "temporary policies to protect our economies and social model," the leaders wrote.

But officials in the more prosperous north have indicated they are skeptical of efforts to mutualize debt across the region, worried about hostile political reactions at home and legal obstacles. They warn that the eurozone needs to ensure it has funds available if the crisis deepens, and that disputes about new instruments will only delay concrete action by individual governments or from existing EU budgets.

German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier, an ally of Chancellor Angela Merkel, cautioned in a newspaper interview this week against "ingenious new ideas that are often the return of long-rejected concepts," calling the debate about eurobonds a "ghost debate."

The increasingly fractious debate underscores how some of the big, structural faults in the architecture of the eurozone, including legal and political constraints on common action, have festered beneath the surface for years, unresolved.

During the region's sovereign-debt crisis starting in 2009, countries including Greece, Portugal and Spain struggled to pay their debts until they were bailed out by other eurozone governments, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank.

Today, government debt in France and Spain is around 100% of annual economic output, and it exceeds 130% of gross domestic product in Italy and Greece, according to data from the IMF. That limits those countries' firepower compared with countries such as Germany and the Netherlands, which both have around 50% debt-to-GDP.

Wednesday's letter is "quite a confrontational step," indicating frustration in a number of European capitals about the lack of progress on joint action, said Guntram Wolff, director of Brussels think tank Bruegel. The letter could fuel fears of a renewed eurozone crisis, he said. "I'm not quite sure it is helpful."

The virus is buffeting economies and prompting the closure of hundreds of thousands of businesses across Europe, but its impact has been especially fierce in the south. Borrowing costs for governments in Italy, Spain and Greece surged last week as investors worried that their debts might become unsustainably high as they battled the crisis. That prompted a swift response from the European Central Bank, which last week unveiled a new 750 billion euro ($815 billion) bond-buying program to help support governments and businesses.

Document J000000020200326eg3q0000i





Heard on the Street
Rule Gives Banks Headache --- Lenders are supposed to write down loans as soon as risk outlook changes

By Rochelle Toplensky 
578 words
26 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

Some of the rules introduced to protect banks after the 2008 financial crisis are aging better than others in the 2020 one.

European regulators are working furiously with their region's banks to keep its financial system ticking as Western economies are hit by the coronavirus shutdown. Many of the regulations forged in the meltdown 12 years ago have proved effective, but there is one clear exception: an accounting change pushing banks to write down loans earlier.

On Friday, the European Central Bank urged lenders to "avoid excessive procyclical effects" when applying the new rule. The Bank of England raised similar concerns and promised more guidance this week.

The old regulations allowed banks to delay write-downs until a borrower failed to pay, which in 2008 led to uncertainty about the true state of banks' loan books. Group of 20 leaders requested new methods to provide more timely credit-risk information in a crisis.

International Financial Reporting Standards -- used in Europe, Britain and more than 100 other countries -- started applying its new rule in 2018, called IFRS 9. It forces banks to make provisions on every loan from the start. The allowance can be quite low initially, but lenders must impair loans more aggressively as soon as a credit risk "increases significantly."

In the U.S., which uses Generally Accepted Accounting Principles rather than IFRS, similar rules -- Current Expected Credit Losses -- are set to come into force this year requiring the full lifetime-expected credit loss to be booked when a loan is made. Officials are concerned and have sought to delay the implementation.

The IFRS rule seeks to build buffers as problems arise, but in an unforeseen economic crisis -- as most major ones are -- it forces banks to write down many loans just as things get tough. That procyclicality was accepted because it also would provide an updated view of the lender's loan book, much like requirements to routinely adjust investments to their market value.

Banks carefully calibrate their risk-weighted assets and capital levels to drive returns on equity. That means lenders forced to make a big loan-book write-down in the midst of a crisis might just stop lending and instead focus on rebalancing their books. That is exactly what governments don't want right now. Instead they need banks to lend to businesses so they can survive the economic standstill.

Last week ratings agency Fitch warned of a "cliff-edge effect" from the IFRS 9 rules.

European bankers have persistently grumbled about postcrisis regulations, but the higher capital requirements have been a success so far. Banks are stronger now than in late 2008. Annual stress tests have also helped, identifying weaknesses to be fixed and building confidence in banks' ability to withstand crises.

But IFRS 9 clearly needs work. Bank finance directors would like to follow the prudential regulators' advice to look through the new rules, yet they must still produce first-quarter numbers that will keep their auditors happy. The risk for investors is that the coronavirus crisis could force lenders to raise capital for what proves to be a temporary challenge.

The new accounting standard was designed to give an updated view of credit risk in a crisis. The scramble to find workarounds during an actual crisis suggests it isn't fit for purpose.

page,5043 

Document J000000020200326eg3q0008l





REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Indicting the Caracas Mob

490 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The world isn't stopping because of the coronavirus, and on Thursday the U.S. escalated its pressure on the thugs running Venezuela. This raises the stakes for dictator Nicolas Maduro and his Cuban backers who continue to oppress Venezuelans even as the virus may spread to Latin America.

The Justice Department indicted Mr. Maduro and four of his lieutenants on charges related to drug-trafficking, money laundering and corruption. It also indicted two leaders of the terrorist Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia -- FARC -- who signed a supposed peace agreement under the guidance of the Obama Administration in 2016 but are alleged to be in cahoots with the Venezuelans, who are also charged with narco-terrorism.

The U.S. has offered a $15 million reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of Mr. Maduro and $12 million for Diosdado Cabello, head of the dictatorship's constituent assembly. Mr. Cabello sued this newspaper in U.S. federal court for libel in 2016 for reporting that he was under Justice investigation on suspicion of drug-trafficking and money-laundering. In 2017 a judge dismissed the case.

The indictments come more than a year after the U.S. recognized Venezuelan interim President Juan Guaido and as Venezuelan oil is fetching $10-$15 a barrel in international markets. Mr. Maduro, whose term expired in January 2019 and was not legitimately re-elected, has refused to allow new elections. The economy has crumbled, and 4.5 million Venezuelans have fled the country, creating a migration crisis in South America.

Mr. Maduro increasingly relies on Cuba's intelligence services for security and organized crime for income. The Justice Department alleges that the heart of all this is the Cartel of the Suns, a drug-trafficking operation named for sun-shaped stars on the uniforms of military and headed by Mr. Maduro.

"The scope and magnitude of the drug trafficking alleged," U.S. Attorney Geoffrey Berman said Thursday, "was made possible only because Maduro and others corrupted the institutions of Venezuela and provided political and military protection for the rampant narco-terrorism crimes described in our charges."

Most drug-trafficking is done for profit, and Mr. Berman alleged that "the defendants betrayed the Venezuelan people and corrupted Venezuelan institutions to line their pockets with drug money." He also alleged that "Maduro and the other defendants expressly intended to flood the United States with cocaine in order to undermine the health and wellbeing of our nation. Maduro very deliberately deployed cocaine as a weapon."

The U.S. rarely indicts heads of state, not least because they can become more reluctant to leave power. But the indictment means Mr. Maduro can be arrested anywhere for trial in America and sends an important signal to the people of Venezuela that the U.S. supports its democratic aspirations.

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Wisdom About Venezuela Beats Feeling Good" -- WSJ April 3, 2020)

Document J000000020200327eg3r0008k





Heard on the Street
Washington's Trillions Can't Stop Job Loss

By Justin Lahart 
407 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

The massive jump in U.S. unemployment insurance claims doesn't tell you precisely how bad the hit to the job market is going to be. It does show that it is going to be horrible.

The Labor Department on Thursday reported the number of American workers filing new claims for jobless benefits last week rose to 3.28 million from 282,000 a week earlier. Nothing in the 53-year history of the series comes close. In the worst week of 2009, when the job market was reeling, initial claims hit 665,000.

Worse, the 3.28 million in new claims doesn't reflect all the people who were pushed out of jobs last week as the novel coronavirus crisis emptied out Main Streets and shut businesses down. Many state labor departments have been inundated with people filing for claims, so not everybody who has tried to file has been able to get through. Many workers take time before filing for benefits, and some don't even know whether they qualify. Many freelance and gig workers don't, although provisions in the $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill the Senate approved late Wednesday, will, after passing through the House and White House, change that.

The actual scope of the job losses won't be known for some time. Even measures such as the unemployment rate won't entirely capture it since people must be seeking work to be counted as unemployed. How many people are doing that in a coronavirus shutdown?

But for all that, the weekly claims report did give an early reading on the sheer awfulness of what is happening and a sense of the magnitude of the challenge the U.S. economy faces. Many of the people who have lost their jobs will struggle to stay afloat even with unemployment checks and the additional money they will receive under the Senate's relief package. They will reduce spending, as will workers who worry that they will be next. That will in turn pinch businesses so far relatively unaffected by the crisis. In the worst-case scenario, business failures could cascade through the economy, leaving many workers without jobs to return to once the threat from the coronavirus has passed.

Washington is writing a huge check but still hasn't figured out how to stop that vicious circle.

page,5043 

Document J000000020200327eg3r0008h





REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Working After the Coronavirus

644 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

So much for full employment. That ended this month with the attack of the coronavirus and Thursday's record spike of three million new jobless claims. Millions more will follow in the coming weeks, and the goal of public policy should be to get them back to work as soon as possible -- not to keep them on the government's unemployment tab.

That point may seem obvious but you wouldn't know it from this week's flap over the enhanced jobless benefits in the Senate's $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill. The bill increases unemployment benefits for all workers by $600 per week for the next four months. Even the liberal Economic Policy Institute says this expansion would provide a "100% replacement of wage income for the bottom half of the workforce." Some will earn more by not working.

Republican Senators Ben Sasse, Lindsey Graham, Tim Scott and Rick Scott warned that this might hurt small employers in their states by encouraging workers to stay at home for longer. Speaker Nancy Pelosi called them "cruel" -- the word is her version of Donald Trump's "incredible" -- and the media echoed her.

The Senators are right if you know anything about labor markets and incentives to work. Jobless benefits are administered by the states, each of which sets its own eligibility requirements and payment levels. Benefits are typically based on a worker's prior earnings and limited to between 50% and 70% of a state's average weekly wage. The maximum benefit runs up to $823 in Massachusetts while the minimum is as low as $10 in Louisiana for low-earners.

The current economic crisis is like no other because government has literally forced hundreds of thousands of businesses to shut down. And because so many workers are likely to lose their jobs, more generous benefits will cushion the short-term blow. But the goal should be returning people to private payrolls when the crisis passes, and the risk is that benefits at 100% of wages for the long term will do the opposite and slow the recovery.

The blunt Democratic solution, which Republicans too easily agreed to as a price of the bill, is to give all laid-off workers a $600 benefit increase on top of their normal unemployment compensation for up to four months. So workers will now make at least $15 an hour (assuming a 40-hour workweek) and as much as $35 an hour in places like Massachusetts -- for not working.

Amazon, Walmart, CVS and delivery services are seeking to hire hundreds of thousands of workers to meet a surge in demand even as the virus spreads. Many are boosting pay, but how are they supposed to compete with workers who can stay at home and make more?

The experience after the 2008-2009 recession is instructive. Congress repeatedly extended unemployment benefits, which expire after 26 weeks in most states, to up to 99 weeks until December 2013. The national jobless rate stayed high far longer than in a typical recovery and the incentive not to work is one reason.

The economic evidence on this incentive point isn't controversial or partisan. In March 2010 economists at the liberal Brookings Institution reported that jobless insurance extensions "correspond to between 0.7 and 1.8 percentage points of the 5.5 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate witnessed in the current recession."

The enhanced benefits expire after four months, but we'll bet Speaker Pelosi's pension that Democrats will be back demanding an extension through the end of the year and calling Republicans "cruel" if they disagree. America needs an economic recovery from the virus recession that is faster and stronger than the last expansion. That means helping laid-off workers for the short term rather than providing a reason not to return to work.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0008g





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Singapore, Among First to Be Hit, Girds for Recession

By Chong Koh Ping 
562 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Singapore said it is bracing for what could be its deepest recession, while European data showed tumbling business and consumer confidence, as evidence mounts that the financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic is getting worse.

Singapore is among the first to report official growth statistics. Its open, trade-dependent economy makes it something of a bellwether of global economic health. It also was among the first nations outside China to be affected by the virus.

Singapore's economy shrank 10.6% in the first three months of this year, advance estimates showed Thursday. The figure is annualized, is adjusted for seasonal differences and compares activity with the previous quarter.

The government slashed full-year forecasts to a contraction of between 1% and 4%, down from a growth range of between negative 0.5% and 1.5%. That downturn could surpass 1998, when the economy shrank 2.2%, the worst year since it became an independent republic in 1965.

"We are heading towards uncharted territory now," DBS economist Irvin Seah said.

Previous slowdowns were due to sharp falls in demand, exacerbated by poor consumer and investor confidence. This time, economic activity also is being directly disrupted by strict measures imposed by many countries to curb the spread of the coronavirus.

Selena Ling, head of treasury research and strategy at OCBC Bank in Singapore, said the three key sectors of manufacturing, services and construction contracted in the first quarter while the economy was facing both demand- and supply-side challenges.

"All engines of growth have stalled," she said, adding that the first quarter probably wouldn't mark the low point.

Neighboring countries also are struggling.

In Thailand, the central bank on Wednesday slashed its full-year forecasts to a 5.3% contraction in gross domestic product, down from the 2.8% growth it predicted in December. It cited challenges in tourism, exports, supply chains and trading-partner slowdowns.

India's government Thursday unveiled $22.5 billion in spending to help the poor survive a nationwide shutdown to slow the spread of the virus.

Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the nation would boost the amount of food and cash it gives to the two-thirds of the country's 1.3 billion citizens who are most vulnerable. The package includes free staple grains such as wheat or rice for about 800 million Indians during the next three months.

"We have to ensure nobody remains hungry and also not without any money," she said.

The government would provide insurance coverage of 5 million rupees ($66,500) each to about two million health workers, in addition to one-time payments of 1,000 rupees to nearly 30 million senior citizens, Ms. Sitharaman said.

India had recorded 649 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths as of Thursday. The number of positive cases has risen more than fivefold since mid-March, prompting the government to order a complete lockdown of the nation for three weeks until April 14.

In Europe, French data on Thursday showed business confidence is at its weakest point since 1989 when records began, while a survey by market research firm GfK showed German consumers are more downbeat. The Netherlands and Ireland were advised by economic-research institutes to expect declines in output this year in excess of 7%.

Document J000000020200327eg3r00067





Business News: Lodging Giant Oyo Unwinds Revenue Promise to Hotels

By Phred Dvorak and Newley Purnell 
610 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Oyo Hotels & Homes, which built itself into the world's second-biggest hotel chain by room count, is phasing out a tool that fueled its rise.

The India-based company and a key investment by SoftBank Group Corp.'s $100 billion tech fund grew quickly in part by offering independent hotel owners the unusual perk of guaranteed revenues if their hotels joined Oyo's chain.

Many hotels signed up, attracted by the guarantees -- sometimes at more than 100% of the previous year's revenue, according to former Oyo employees. However, some hotels didn't produce sufficient bookings, leaving Oyo on the hook to meet those revenue levels and resulting in disputes with some hotel owners.

Now, Oyo is ending the practice of awarding those guarantees around the world and instead is rolling out new contracts for its hoteliers without them, Chief Executive Ritesh Agarwal told The Wall Street Journal. The new contracts also raise fees charged to the hotels, according to some hotels and former Oyo employees.

Mr. Agarwal said the company is taking the step largely because the guarantees have served their purpose of convincing hotels that Oyo could boost their occupancy and revenue. But he said Oyo had some problems with the guarantees, particularly in its biggest market of China, and that around 15% of Oyo's rooms still had them as of the beginning of the year.

"In reflection, we are able to see that minimum guarantees work, but only when they are handled with great care," he said. Oyo's share of the money guests pay for their rooms is on average more than 15%, after any losses on the guarantees are subtracted, he said.

Oyo -- which lost around $335 million in the latest fiscal year, ended March 2019 -- is under pressure to become profitable. But Oyo's moves to curb subsidies and raise fees have driven some hotels out of the chain as the global tourism industry is reeling from the coronavirus pandemic.

The abrupt turn to focus more on profits was urged by SoftBank's Vision Fund, which is Oyo's controlling shareholder, people familiar with the matter say. Following the multibillion-dollar losses on office-share company WeWork last year, the fund has been telling other cash-burning portfolio companies to show a path to profits.

If Oyo fails to do so, it could lead to another write-down for the Vision Fund. Oyo also is taking other steps, including laying off thousands of employees world-wide, in a bid to slash costs.

The coronavirus pandemic adds to Oyo's challenges. As bookings are canceled, Oyo could wind up owing more to its hotel partners to fulfill its revenue guarantees unless it restructures the deals soon.

Oyo said it is offering temporary financial aid to some hotels in Southeast Asia and new joiners in Japan. It also is offering discounts on some rooms to bring in guests, and may temporarily delay some of its efforts to restructure contracts with hotels in China and Japan to help them until conditions improve, according to former staffers as well as internal messages reviewed by the Journal.

The company's business model is built around persuading hotels to join Oyo's platform, which uses homegrown booking technology to optimize occupancy rates.

In return for Oyo's guarantee of minimum revenues, hoteliers granted Oyo control over room pricing and a cut of the money from bookings. Oyo said its 80-country network last year spanned more than 40,000 hotels and a million rooms, behind only Marriott International Inc. in room count.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0000j





U.S. News: G-20 Vows To Contain Fallout

By Bob Davis 
462 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The leaders of the Group of 20 nations said that they would collectively spend more than $5 trillion trying to insulate the global economy from the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and help speed a recovery.

The commitment to coordinated stimulus was the largest the G-20 members have made since the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, an event that prompted creation of the leaders' summits.

Back then they met in Washington and then London. On Thursday's call, they spoke by videoconference, reflecting the changed nature of the threat to the global economy.

"We commit to do whatever it takes and to use all available policy tools to minimize the economic and social damage from the pandemic, restore global growth, maintain market stability, and strengthen resilience," the G-20 said in a statement.

The group didn't put forward a specific plan to address the coronavirus challenge, perhaps reflecting the limited time that it had to arrange the session in face of the rapidly spreading pandemic.

"They would have needed a lot of time to come up with a detailed action plan," said Maurice Obstfeld, a former International Monetary Fund chief economist. The statement is "long on generalities, short on specifics."

The G-20 is an informal collection of countries that make up about 80% of the global economy, according to calculations by Homi Kharas, a Brookings Institution economist.

The group has no independent power but tries to coordinate actions and generally relies on the IMF and World Bank to act as its staff.

During the videoconference, leaders read their formal statements and approved the group communique, said people familiar with the meeting. There was little give-and-take. During in-person summits, most of the substantive meetings occur on the sidelines of the sessions. During the last two in-person G-20 meetings, in Buenos Aires and Kyoto, President Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping met to try to end their continuing trade war. They arrived at truces, which didn't hold.

The group's inclusiveness makes it difficult for it to act. For instance, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has been trying to use the session to convince Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to end its oil fight with Russia, which has driven down energy prices. But the G-20 also includes oil importers like India, which may prefer to keep prices low and Russia, which may not be willing to back down from its confrontation with Saudi Arabia.

There wasn't a mention in the statement of oil or energy policy.

The group did, however, say that they were expecting global trade to play a big role in any recovery.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0001r





U.S. News: Fed Chief Says U.S. Could Be in Recession

By Nick Timiraos 
155 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said the U.S. economy "may well be in a recession," but that the central bank is taking unprecedented action to help ensure economic activity can resume as soon as the coronavirus pandemic is under control.

"The virus is going to dictate the timetable here," Mr. Powell said in a rare television interview, on NBC's "Today" show Thursday morning. "The first order of business will be to get the spread of the virus under control, and then resume economic activity."

Mr. Powell said he expected economic activity to decline "pretty substantially" in the second quarter.

The Fed's job now, he added, is to make sure businesses of all sizes can have a "bridge" of support, including through emergency lending programs the Fed has been rolling out, so that the economy can recover faster.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0001p





Personal Finance
Retirement Report: IRA Strategy Takes Advantage of Market Fall

By Anne Tergesen 
1,184 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B5
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The market's recent plunge has been brutal.

But for people with traditional individual retirement accounts, the silver lining is that today's lower account balances can be used to reduce income-tax bills in retirement.

The key is a strategy known as the Roth conversion. This allows account owners to transfer some or all of the money in a tax-deferred IRA to a Roth IRA, a retirement account into which you contribute after-tax dollars and get tax-free withdrawals.

Although you will have to pay income tax on the transfer, due to the tax cuts enacted in 2017 many people stand to pay a lower tax rate today than they would by deferring the payments until retirement, says William Reichenstein, a professor at Baylor University and a principal at Income Strategy, an online service that helps retirees plan tax-efficient withdrawals.

"It's a good time to think about a Roth conversion," said Prof. Reichenstein. The decision, he added, comes down to a comparison between your current marginal tax rate and the rate you are likely to pay in the future.

With asset values beaten down and income-tax rates scheduled to increase in 2026 when the tax cuts enacted in 2017 expire, "there is a window now where it's super-attractive in my opinion for most people to consider conversions," said Robert Jeter, an adviser in Salisbury, Md.

Why bother converting? Once you hold a Roth for at least five years and are age 59 1/2, future withdrawals of both principal and appreciation are tax- and penalty-free. Moreover, you won't ever have to take a required distribution from a Roth (although beneficiaries who inherit these accounts must take them).

With a traditional IRA, individuals generally get to subtract contributions from their income and reduce the taxes they pay.

Amounts in the IRA then grow tax-free, but account owners must pay ordinary income tax on the money when they withdraw it in retirement. With a Roth IRA, there is no upfront tax deduction. The money grows tax-free and can be taken out tax-free.

In retirement, people with Roth accounts can take tax-free withdrawals to supplement their taxable income and stay within a lower tax bracket. Some may be able to use Roth withdrawals to reduce the portion of their Social Security benefits that are subject to income tax, or reduce or avoid the surcharges on Medicare premiums that kick in above $87,000 in income for individuals and $174,000 for couples.

To make a Roth conversion worthwhile, the account owner should ideally pay the tax using money outside the IRA, said Ed Slott, an IRA consultant in Rockville Centre, N.Y.

"If you convert $100,000 and use $25,000 of that to pay the taxes, you will have paid for a $100,000 conversion, but will only get $75,000 of value," he said. (Those under age 59 1/2 will also owe a 10% penalty on the $25,000 withdrawn to pay taxes.)

For many people, a more palatable approach is to convert just enough from a traditional IRA to make full use of their current income-tax bracket.

For retirees, the best time to do Roth conversions is before claiming Social Security and taking required minimum distributions from traditional 401(k)s and IRAs. Those distributions start at age 70 1/2 (for those born before July 1, 1949) or at age 72 (for those born after June 30, 1949) and can't be converted. So once retirees start taking them, it is harder to do Roth conversions without ending up in a higher tax bracket.

Prof. Reichenstein said retirees who convert in the early years of retirement, when their taxable income is low, may be able to "make their portfolios last up to seven years longer."

Here's how to do it:

Step 1: Consider a man who retires at age 62 with $1.3 million in assets, including $1 million in a regular IRA and $300,000 in a taxable bank or brokerage account.

If he plans to spend $75,600 in 2020 and adjust the amount annually for inflation, the conventional solution is to claim Social Security at 62 and withdraw the rest from the taxable account.

A better approach is to put off claiming Social Security, said William Meyer, chief executive of Retiree Inc., which owns Income Strategy.

Step 2: In the interim, Mr. Meyer says the man should withdraw the $75,600 he needs from the taxable account. If that account holds cash or can be liquidated without triggering much in the way of capital gains, the retiree will find himself in a low tax bracket -- and the $300,000 account will support him for about four years.

Step 3: From 2020 to 2025, he should convert enough money from his tax-deferred IRA to fill the 22% tax bracket each year and deposit the money in a Roth, where it can grow tax-free.

Assuming the man is able to convert roughly $365,000 before tax rates increase in 2026, the Roth IRA will grow to about $430,000 by the end of 2025, calculates Mr. Meyer, who assumes a 4.86% annual return.

The Result: As the Roth's balance grows, the man's tax-deferred retirement account will shrink -- to about $700,000 from $1 million over five years due to the conversions.

Beginning in 2026, when tax rates rise, the man should change his withdrawal strategy, by taking out enough from his tax-deferred IRA to fill the 15% bracket -- and using the Roth to cover the rest.

That will help him reduce taxes on his Social Security.

To see why, consider what will happen in 10 years, when the man begins taking required distributions. If he waits to claim Social Security until age 70, by 72 he will receive over $40,000 in benefits -- or 77% more than he would have gotten if he had claimed instead at 62, says Mr. Meyer.

From a tax perspective, a bigger Social Security benefit is good news. Why? The formula that determines how much of an individual's Social Security is taxable counts traditional IRA and 401(k) distributions more heavily than Social Security income.

By reducing required minimum distributions from IRAs, retirees with after-tax incomes between $40,000 and $90,000 may also reduce or eliminate taxes on their Social Security benefits, Mr. Meyer said.

Thanks to the Roth conversions, the man is also likely to reap other tax benefits. Because his tax-deferred IRAs will be smaller, when required distributions begin at 72, the withdrawals -- and the taxable income they create -- will be lower.

And he can use tax-free Roth withdrawals to supplement his income in years in which taking more from the traditional IRA would push him above the 15% tax bracket. The tax savings are likely to extend the life of his portfolio for as long as five years, Mr. Meyer figures.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0000t





Navigating the Coronavirus (A Special Report) --- Clarifying the Tax Deadline

By Laura Saunders 
752 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
R6
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Internal Revenue Service has issued guidance filling in many details of the historic delay in this year's tax-filing and payment deadlines, which have been extended to July 15 from April 15 for many taxpayers due to the coronavirus pandemic. The agency also announced key delays to enforcement actions.

Among other things, the agency clarified that the deadline for making contributions to individual retirement accounts and Roth IRAs is now July 15; that returns with automatic filing extensions are still due Oct. 15; and that there are ways for filers to delay automatic tax payments they previously scheduled for April 15.

The IRS also said it generally won't start new audits, and it will suspend in-person meetings with taxpayers under exam through July 15. It also won't submit the names of delinquent taxpayers to the State Department for potential restrictions on their passports.

Here's what to know about the July 15 tax deadline and changes to IRS enforcement actions.

Q: Will my tax refund be delayed until July 15?

A: No. The IRS is processing refunds now, as in a typical tax season.

Q: I already filed my 2019 return and scheduled an automatic withdrawal of my tax payment for April 15. Will the IRS automatically delay this payment until July 15?

A: No, but taxpayers can take action to change the payment date.

Many filers authorize an electronic funds withdrawal as part of filing their tax returns. The IRS says these taxpayers can cancel their payment by contacting the U.S. Treasury Financial Agent at 888-353-4537. But payment cancellation requests must be made no later than 11:59 p.m. ET two business days before the scheduled payment date. Then reschedule the automatic payment or mail a check to the IRS.

Fewer taxpayers use IRS Direct Pay or the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS). Both have directions for canceling payments, which must be done two days before the payment date. For IRS Direct Pay, use the Look Up a Payment Feature. For EFTPS, log in and click on Cancel a Tax Payment.

Q: What if I need more time to complete tax paperwork and file my 2019 return?

A: Individuals can ask for an automatic extension of the time to file (but not pay) by filing Form 4868 by July 15. The deadline to file returns remains Oct. 15, 2020.

Q: Is my deadline to contribute to an IRA, Roth IRA, health savings account or Archer MSA also extended?

A: Yes, these deadlines are delayed to July 15 from April 15.

Q: I see that my first-quarter estimated tax payment due on April 15 is now due on July 15. What about the second-quarter payment, due June 15?

A: As of now, the second-quarter payment is still due on June 15. This could change.

Q: What doesn't qualify for the IRS's three-month delay?

A: Among other things: estate and gift taxes, excise taxes, information returns such as 1099 forms, and payroll taxes -- although Congress is considering a payroll-tax deferral. In addition, tax items that don't have April 15 deadlines, such as the March 16 due date for partnership returns, don't qualify for the extension.

For more information on this or other questions, check the IRS's FAQs devoted to coronavirus issues (go to IRS.gov and search on "Filing and Payment Deadlines Questions and Answers").

Q: Are state-tax deadlines also delayed?

A: A number of states have extended individual income-tax deadlines. For the latest information, go to aicpa.org and search on "state tax filing relief chart."

Q: Is the IRS stopping audits during the pandemic?

A: Not exactly. The agency says it generally won't start new audits before July 15, unless they are deemed to be important. While it will also suspend in-person meetings for audits in process, taxpayers should keep in touch with the IRS about these audits.

Q: What about other changes to enforcement actions?

A: For a full rundown, go to irs.gov and search on "People First Initiative Covid 19."

Among the changes: Liens and levies to collect taxes due, including seizures of personal residences, will be suspended between April 1 and July 15. Payments on existing installment agreements are suspended for the same period, although the interest on them will continue to accrue. The current interest rate is about 5%.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0000i





Personal Finance
Retirement Plans Revisited In Senate Stimulus Package

By Anne Tergesen 
883 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B5
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Senate's $2 trillion coronavirus-relief bill that passed Wednesday night includes breaks for Americans whose retirement accounts have been battered by the stock-market meltdown.

The House of Representatives is expected to pass the package on Friday. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said President Trump would sign the package as it was written Wednesday.

Provisions in the Senate legislation raise the limits on 401(k) loans and loosen the rules on hardship distributions from retirement accounts. People affected by the coronavirus crisis would get access to up to $100,000 of their retirement savings without the penalty for withdrawals taken out before age 59 1/2.

For retirees, the bill suspends for 2020 the minimum required distributions most must take from tax-deferred 401(k)s and individual retirement accounts.

For 2009, Congress enacted a similar measure to give beaten-down retirement accounts time to rebound without requiring retirees to take money out when their balances were low.

Retirement plans can allow people to use the new hardship distribution and loan provisions immediately. Here are details.

Hardship distributions

The "hardship withdrawals" of up to $100,000 would still be taxable, but account owners can pay the income tax due on the withdrawal over three years, rather than in the first year. And those under age 59 1/2 would be exempt from the 10% penalty that normally applies.

Alternatively, they can put the money back into a 401(k)-type plan or an IRA within three years, and skip the tax payments, even if the amount they want to redeposit exceeds the annual contribution limit, which is currently $6,000 for an IRA (or $7,000 for those 50 or older) and $19,500 for a 401(k) (or $26,000 for those 50 or older).

To qualify for the hardship distribution, the account owner or his or her spouse or dependent must have been diagnosed with the coronavirus or lost income due to a layoff, business closure, quarantine, reduction in hours, or inability to work due to a lack of child care.

The administrator of the account "may rely on an employee's certification that the employee satisfies the conditions," the bill says.

Loans

The bill doubles the amount 401(k) participants who have been diagnosed with the virus or affected by economic losses can take in loans for the next six months from a retirement account to the lower of $100,000 or 100% of the account balance. (IRAs don't permit loans.)

People with 401(k) loans -- new or existing -- can delay any repayment due in 2020 for a year. That extends the repayment deadline for these loans by a year.

Required minimum distributions

Those who contribute to tax-deferred retirement accounts, such as traditional IRAs and 401(k)s, don't pay income tax on the money they put into these accounts. But starting at either age 70 1/2 (for those born before July 1, 1949) or at age 72 (for those born after June 30, 1949), the government requires them to start withdrawing a set percentage of the account balance, and paying income taxes.

Account holders can always withdraw more. But if they take less than the minimum required, they could be subject to a 50% penalty on the amount they should have withdrawn -- except for 2020.

The one-year suspension of required distributions will help retirees, who would otherwise have been forced to base their minimum withdrawals for 2020 on their account balances as of Dec. 31, 2019, when the stock market was near record levels.

Under normal rules, a 75-year-old with a $500,000 IRA evenly split between stocks and bonds on Dec. 31 would have been required to withdraw about $22,000 this year on top of losses so far of about $49,000.

The reprieve also gives those who can afford to leave their nest eggs alone a better chance of recovering losses. The reason: they'll have more dollars working for them in the event of a stock-market rebound, says Ed Slott, an IRA consultant in Rockville Centre, N.Y. People who have inherited 401(k)s, IRAs, or Roth IRAs can also suspend distributions in 2020.

---

Richard Rubin contributed to this article.

---

Relief Measures

Criticized by Some

The financial-services industry pushed for the relief measures for retirement accounts, arguing that Congress should "provide plan participants and retirees the flexibility they need to weather this unprecedented public health and financial crisis," said Matt Petersen, executive director of National Association of Government Defined Contribution Administrators Inc.

Some consumer advocates say, however, that the hardship provision may exacerbate savings shortfalls in the long run. Before the current market decline, the nonprofit Employee Benefit Research Institute estimated Americans between the ages of 35 and 64 faced a retirement savings shortfall of $3.83 trillion, with 41% of households projected to run short of money in later life.

The provisions that govern 401(k) loans and suspend required distributions "are quite sensible," said Shai Akabas, director of economic policy at the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington, D.C. "But to have a blank check to take out $100,000 from a retirement account penalty-free sends the wrong message."

Document J000000020200327eg3r0000u





Jobless Claims Surge As Contagion Spreads

By Kate King 
461 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Thursdays in late March are usually a flurry of activity at the Poughkeepsie Grand Hotel in New York as staff prepare for the weekend's weddings.

That was before the coronavirus pandemic forced cancellations and the hotel had to lay off more than 100 employees. This week, the front doors were locked, the lobby music turned off and the hallway lights dimmed to save electricity.

"We're literally in limbo and I think that's the worst thing that can happen," said the hotel's general manager, Maureen Kangas.

As expected, the number of people applying for unemployment benefits in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut skyrocketed in the week ended March 21 after governors in all three states ordered nonessential businesses to close to contain the spread of the virus.

Coronavirus infections continued to climb this week, with more than 39,000 confirmed cases in New York, 6,800 in New Jersey and 1,000 in Connecticut as of Thursday night.

In New York, about 80,000 claims were filed in the week ended March 21, a 463% increase from the previous week. The number of claims seemed low considering that the New York State Department of Labor reported receiving about 1.7 million calls and 2.3 million visits to its website that week. A spokeswoman for the department didn't make anyone available to comment Thursday.

David Cooper, a senior economic analyst at the think tank Economic Policy Institute, said unemployment claims in New York may be lower because many of the state's jobs, particularly in the financial and information sectors, can be performed from home. Still, he said the pandemic's impact on the workforce is so unprecedented that it will take awhile for economists to figure it out.

"It's going to take time to understand all these patterns that we're seeing in these data," he said.

New Jersey saw a 1,546% increase in claims week-over-week, with the 156,000 claims far surpassing the state's previous record of 46,000 claims filed in a single week in November 2012, after superstorm Sandy.

"It's shocking when you see the numbers," said Robert Asaro-Angelo, the state's labor commissioner. "But the way I like to look at it is, the system is working. People pay into unemployment for this very reason."

Laid-off restaurant and bar employees filed the most claims, followed by workers from doctor and dentist offices and personal and laundry services, such as hair and nail salons and dry cleaners, according to the state's labor department.

In Connecticut, unemployment claims increased 630% last week compared with the prior week, with about 25,000 people applying for benefits.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0000q





U.S. Cases, Jobless Claims Soar --- Number of infections across country pass China's count; New York remains epicenter

By Talal Ansari, Jennifer Calfas and Chun Han Wong 
888 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The U.S. has overtaken China as the country with the most cases in the world of the novel coronavirus, a new milestone in the fight against the global pandemic.

China had held the top spot since the deadly virus began spreading there in December.

There were 85,505 confirmed infections across America, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. The first case in the U.S. -- a man in Washington state who had recently traveled to Wuhan, China -- was reported on Jan. 21. Within six weeks, the U.S. began to see a surge in new infections and the country's first deaths.

Fatalities in the U.S. from the new coronavirus hit 1,288 Thursday night.

New York is the center of the pandemic in the U.S., with its 39,125 infections accounting for nearly half of all cases in the country and tens of thousands more than any other state. The New York City metro area accounts for 35% of all new cases in the U.S., Deborah Birx, response coordinator for the White House's coronavirus task force, said in a briefing on Thursday.

By contrast, 19 states have fewer than 200 confirmed cases, Dr. Birx said.

To help state and local authorities decide whether to bolster or relax social-distancing measures designed to help stop the spread of the virus, the Trump administration is planning to issue guidelines categorizing counties across the nation as high risk, medium risk or low risk.

State officials have so far enacted a patchwork of rules to stop the spread of the virus, and cities have sought ways to decrease crowding in parks, trails and outdoor spaces. In Chicago, officials closed the city's Lakefront Trail and beaches Thursday, while the New York Police Department mobilized to crack down on socializing.

China said Thursday it will close its borders to nearly all foreigners and drastically slash international flights in a bid to curb the reintroduction of the fast-spreading coronavirus from abroad.

The near-blanket restrictions on international travel to China come after months in which Beijing expressed its opposition to similar curbs imposed by other countries on travel from China, where the pandemic first exploded.

The country has reported a sustained decline in the number of new domestically transmitted infections in recent weeks, even as infections have risen among people arriving from abroad. China had 81,782 total infections, according to Johns Hopkins data. Health authorities logged no new local infections on Tuesday and Wednesday, compared with 114 new imported cases over those two days.

The U.S. has only a fraction of China's population, with just over 330 million residents compared with 1.4 billion in China.

World-wide, there were more than 531,700 cases Thursday, according to Johns Hopkins data. Testing for the new coronavirus hasn't been uniform across the U.S. or globally, which affects total case counts.

Hospitals in U.S. hot spots including New York and Seattle have passed a tipping point, as a relentless surge in cases forces some to move patients to outlying facilities, divert ambulances and store bodies in a refrigerated truck.

The economy is also straining under the weight of the pandemic as employers lay off workers and state officials order nonessential businesses to close. A record 3.28 million U.S. workers applied for unemployment benefits last week, far surpassing the previous record of 695,000 set in October 1982.

Congress is aiming to give families and businesses a financial shield against the worst of the fallout, with the largest economic stimulus package in recent memory. The House is expected to consider the legislation, already approved by the Senate, on Friday. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin indicated that the government would take stakes in airline carriers in exchange for billions in direct grants to the companies as part of the stimulus package, according to people familiar with the matter.

Across the Atlantic, European Union leaders agreed late Thursday to ready options for further economic steps to respond to the crisis but pledged no specific new action.

After a fractious teleconference meeting that ran hours over schedule, leaders said eurozone finance ministers should present proposals on possible next steps within two weeks.

The European Central Bank, meanwhile, sent a powerful signal to investors that it would aggressively support indebted eurozone countries battling the coronavirus, starting purchases under a new 750 billion euro ($812.3 billion) bond-buying program and stating that it wouldn't be bound by earlier limits on its bond buys.

While Italy continues to be the epicenter of the pandemic fight on the Continent, with 80,589 confirmed cases, infections in Spain have risen 10-fold during its national lockdown, to 57,786. The country's death toll from the respiratory illness surpassed China's on Wednesday and now stands at 4,365. Only Italy has a higher toll, with 8,215 fatalities.

More than 24,000 people have died world-wide after contracting the virus, according to Johns Hopkins data.

(See related article: "Historic run of growth abruptly comes to a close as unemployment filings surge to record" -- WSJ Mar. 27, 2020)

Document J000000020200327eg3r0001m





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Crisis Widens Rift Between U.S. and China --- Finger-pointing makes a joint effort to fight outbreak doubtful, unlike 2008 downturn

By Bob Davis and Lingling Wei 
1,103 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Chinese President Xi Jinping has been on a telephone spree this month, dialing the leaders of coronavirus-battered France, Italy, Spain and Germany with offers of support, including masks and other medical equipment. One phone number he hasn't tried is President Trump's.

The last time the leaders of the world's two largest economies talked was in early February when the virus was ravaging China but not the U.S. The two talked about whether China would still buy as many farm goods as it promised in a trade deal.

Since then, both governments have traded barbs over the coronavirus, generating distrust that now stands in the way of rescuing the global economy.

"How do you cooperate when you hear the president of the United States referring to the epidemic as the 'Chinese virus' all day long," said a Beijing government adviser. A senior U.S. administration official countered that China's attempts to cast suspicion that the virus originated in the U.S. "are dangerous, counterproductive to relief efforts and something we're watching closely."

On Thursday, Messrs. Trump and Xi participated in a videoconference of leaders of the Group of 20 large economies, whose members pledged to spendmore than $5 trillion to help the global economy. While China and the U.S. supported that goal, the two leaders didn't address each other directly, people familiar with the meeting said. Mr. Trump later said he would talk with Mr. Xi on Thursday night.

As the global economy lurches toward recession, the world's two largest economies are taking potshots at each other and ignoring chances for coordination. A relationship that helped pull the world out of a global recession a decade ago now is on the rocks.

Relations between the two giants have been frayed by two years of conflict over trade, accusations of technology theft and China's more assertive push for global influence. The trade war paused in January with a deal that left in place U.S. tariffs on about two-thirds of Chinese imports into the U.S. Any boost in goodwill was short-lived.

"All the truculence is very unhelpful with respect to the areas of cooperation that could be there," said Lawrence Summers, a top economic policy official in the Obama White House during the financial crisis. He ticked off ways the two sides could be working better together, from developing vaccines to keeping supply chains operating.

During the latest global downturn in 2008 and 2009, the two nations worked in lockstep to stimulate demand through massive spending programs. They lobbied G-20 nations to do the same. The U.S. also persuaded China to hold on to its trillion-dollar cache of U.S. government securities, despite Chinese concern that their investments would tank.

President George W. Bush called Chinese leader Hu Jintao twice within a month of the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 that fueled a financial crisis that quickly spread globally. Mr. Bush's message to Mr. Hu was, recalls a senior Chinese official, "come join me, and help me save the global economy."

Some discussion about the recently concluded trade deal and other issues is taking place, though it is being handled at the subcabinet level, with Undersecretary of Treasury Brent McIntosh talking with Finance Vice Minister Liao Min.

Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell has consulted with People's Bank of China Governor Yi Gang, officials in both countries say. But the two central banks can't act in concert -- and couldn't during the global financial crisis -- because the People's Bank isn't an independent agency. For its most important decisions, it needs the approval of the Chinese leadership. China so far has resisted joining the Fed and other Western central banks in aggressively slashing interest rates to help stimulate the economy.

U.S. officials say the economic problems unleashed by the coronavirus mainly require a domestic response, not one with a starring role for China. That includes helping tide over workers and companies until the pandemic fades, though the G-20 effort also foresees significantly boosting global demand.

Working closely with China could help the global economy recover faster, some economists say. "If you have a coordinated stimulus, everyone can maintain an open trading system," said Brookings Institution economist David Dollar, a former Treasury representative in Beijing. "Some of the U.S. stimulus will spill over to China and some of China's stimulus will spill over to the U.S."

What China can or would be willing to do is far from clear. China is trying to restart its economy after the near standstill used to stifle the coronavirus. Beijing wants to do so without aggravatingan already burdensome debt load -- a hangover from its 2009 stimulus spending.

So far, the U.S. has worked internationally mainly through the Group of Seven industrialized democracies -- the U.S., Canada, Germany, Italy, France, Japan and Britain -- which the U.S. chairs this year.

On Tuesday, G-7 finance ministers and central bankers conferred and released a statement stressing their commitment to do "whatever is necessary" to restore confidence and ultimately revive economic growth. The G-20 statement on Thursday largely repeated that pledge.

A separate meeting of G-7 foreign ministers ended without a joint statement, because members refused to go along with a U.S. request to refer to the novel coronavirus as the "Wuhan virus," according to an official familiar with the matter.

The response to the global financial crisis represented a high-water mark in economic relations between the U.S. and China, as the two nations spent massively to pull the world out of recession. But the recovery also put in motion forces that would eventually fracture the relationship.

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump capitalized on the growing disillusionment with China. As president, he battled with China for two years over trade by assessing heavy tariffs -- prompting Beijing to retaliate in kind -- and by trying to block China telecom giant Huawei Technologies Co. from selling overseas, asserting that the firm is used by Beijing to spy. Huawei denies that charge.

By March, relations had fallen so precipitously, that the two nations couldn't work out the details of a planned shipment of U.S. medical supplies and other aid to China. Beijing finally told the U.S. to send the supplies someplace else. They wound up going elsewhere in the region.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0005n





U.S. Cases, Jobless Claims Soar --- Historic run of growth abruptly comes to a close as unemployment filings surge to record

By Eric Morath, Jon Hilsenrath and Sarah Chaney 
1,300 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- A record 3.28 million workers applied for unemployment benefits last week as the new coronavirus hit the U.S. economy, marking an abrupt end to the nation's historic, decadelong run of job growth.

The number of Americans filing for claims was nearly five times the previous record. The surge was for the week ended March 21 and could rise. Pennsylvania, Ohio and California were among 10 states reporting more than 100,000 claims, leaving unemployment systems overloaded.

Millions of U.S. businesses have announced layoffs or furloughs, as their cash flows dry up. Several state and local authorities have ordered nonessential businesses to close in response to the novel coronavirus pandemic, bringing the great American job machine to a sudden halt.

Until March, U.S. employers added jobs for a record 113 straight months, causing payrolls to grow by 22 million. In the process, millions of people -- including low-wage hourly laborers, disabled people, minorities, former inmates and others -- found work. The unemployment rate, which was 3.5% in February, had been at levels not seen since the 1960s. Wages started to accelerate in the past two years after lagging during the early stages of the expansion that followed the 2007-09 recession.

The strong labor market kept the U.S. economy humming for a decade.

And then, in a matter of days, it stopped.

Millions of Americans, already fearful the new coronavirus could infect them or their families, now have two new worries: When will the job machine start again? And can they hold out until it does? Much will depend on how long the virus crisis lasts and whether federal and state unemployment insurance programs can adapt quickly to fill the immense gaps building in household cash flows until the virus recedes.

"We haven't seen this big of a free fall before," said Keith Hall, former director of the Congressional Budget Office and adviser to President George W. Bush. "Not even during the Depression . . . It's really like an instant Great Recession."

Mr. Hall said the jobless rate in the coming months could approach the 20% that some economists estimate occurred during the Depression. Northern Trust Chief Economist Carl Tannenbaum said if half the workers in hard-hit industries, such as restaurants, retail and personal services, are laid off, the unemployment rate could rise 10 percentage points, to more than 13%. That is well above the post-World War II record of 10.8% at the end of the 1981-82 recession.

The number of jobless claims filed last week in Pennsylvania increased by 363,469 to 378,908, with 5.8% of the labor force seeking assistance.

Those figures didn't capture everyone seeking assistance. Denzel Buie said he was stymied by crashing websites and unending phone-call waits when attempting to file a claim. The 25-year-old was laid off from his union construction job on March 20. At the start of last week, the state ordered restaurants and bars to shut down.

The increase in claims last week was 17 times higher than the previous record one-week jump. In recessions, claims gradually rise, allowing states to shift resources. Now, more claims were filed last week than for all of April 2009, the peak month for job loss during the 2007-09 recession.

Mr. Buie said his layoff was a serious blow to his family, which includes a 3-year-old daughter. His wife, a secretary, was laid off a week earlier when the allergist's office where she worked suspended operations.

"It's not like I can go get another job," Mr. Buie said. "It was a massive layoff -- the entire construction industry in Philadelphia shut down. All I can do is stay home and pray I don't get sick, because if I go to the hospital, that's another bill."

Ohio Gov. Mike DeWine mandated bars and restaurants to close dine-in services on March 15. The state had 187,784 new jobless claims last week.

Pennsylvania and Ohio provided an estimated number of claims, the only two states to do so, according to the Labor Department. A department analyst said the estimates were likely due to the high-volume of claims received.

Job losses swept across the nation hitting states with varying mandates for social distancing. California, with tough restrictions, had 186,809; Texas, with less, had 155,657; while New Jersey had 155,454.

The claims data likely don't fully capture the severity of the layoffs. Workers aren't required to file for claims the week they are let go. If a person is ill or busy caring for children or family members, they may put off filing, especially if the process requires a lengthy wait.

In addition, more companies laid off workers this week, as additional states ordered nonessential businesses to close.

Economists are divided on whether the downturn is a short-term disruption or the start of a prolonged recession.

If the nation can get back to business quickly, restaurants, airlines, hotels, and others might quickly hire back the workers they have let go or furloughed. With support from government programs, including the $2 trillion rescue program being considered in Congress, the jobless rate could theoretically surge and then recede.

But there are other scenarios. If infection and death rates associated with the coronavirus grow untamed, social distancing could prolong the economic pain. Even if the federal government moves away from its push for social distancing -- as President Trump has suggested he is considering -- states, cities, businesses and individuals could still decide they have no other choice.

The cash crunch now hitting businesses and households also could induce them to pull back further, starting a downward cycle that feeds on itself. All of that could dent business and household confidence, leaving long-lasting economic scars.

Getting back to work thus hangs on how quickly the virus itself is tamed.

Large corporations were initially reluctant to lay off workers aggressively, in part because they expected the virus to pass quickly and didn't want to part with employees.

Now, pressures to fire people are building beyond the industries most directly exposed. General Electric Co.'s jet-engine business said Monday it would lay off about 10% of its U.S. workforce, or about 2,500 employees. Medical offices not tied to treating the virus, including dentists and physical therapists, are shutting and letting workers go. Those providing in-person services -- such as barbers, massage therapists and housecleaners -- are seeing business evaporate.

The job market isn't uniformly dark, in part because the repercussions of the crisis are spreading unevenly. Walmart Inc., Amazon.com Inc., and CVS Health Corp. are among about a dozen large companies that have said they are seeking to hire nearly 500,000 workers in coming weeks. The companies are managing a surge in demand for food and other household products that have taxed their stores and warehouses.

Though those mini-booms are encouraging, economists don't expect them to fully counter the pressures millions of other employers face to lay off workers as sales and cash flows dry up.

Mr. Hall, the former CBO director, is among the economists who expect the economy to recover at a slower pace than it contracts. But he pointed to a reason for hope: The labor market has defied expectations in the recent past, drawing a larger share of Americans into the workforce than many expected and reaching low unemployment levels few thought possible.

(See related article: "Number of infections across country pass China's count; New York remains epicenter" -- WSJ Mar. 27, 2020)





Document J000000020200327eg3r0001o



World News: Maduro Faces Drug Charges in The U.S.

By Aruna Viswanatha, Jose de Cordoba and Ian Talley 
547 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A18
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

U.S. authorities charged Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and senior government officials with drug trafficking and conspiring with terrorists, and offered multimillion-dollar rewards for their arrests, escalating the Trump administration's effort to unseat the leftist regime.

Prosecutors unsealed a series of criminal cases in New York, Florida and Washington on Thursday targeting much of Venezuela's current leadership, including Diosdado Cabello, the head of the country's Constituent Assembly, a rubber-stamp body set up by Mr. Maduro after losing the National Assembly to the opposition majority; defense minister, Vladimir Padrino; and the chief justice of the Supreme Court.

In a superseding indictment filed in New York that is the product of a decadelong investigation, prosecutors accused Mr. Maduro, his deceased predecessor Hugo Chavez and other leaders in their governments of coordinating with a military-linked drug cartel and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, which the U.S. has labeled as a terrorist guerrilla group.

In associated action, the State Department offered a total of $60 million for the arrest and capture of several of the people charged: $15 million for Mr. Maduro, $10 million for each of four other top current and former officials, and $5 million for a senior FARC member.

Under Venezuela's leadership, the U.S. said, Caracas "prioritized using cocaine as a weapon against America" by flooding the U.S. with tons of the drug during the past two decades, starting when Mr. Chavez became president.

In a televised speech, Mr. Maduro blasted the indictments. "This is an extravagantly extremist, vulgar, and miserable act," said Mr. Maduro in a television broadcast Thursday night. "A collection of dirty, false accusations -- and as if they were cowboys from the Old West, they put a price on the head of revolutionaries who are ready to combat them everywhere and keep on beating them. You are a miserable person, Donald Trump."

Mr. Maduro is unlikely to ever be in U.S. custody to face the charges, but U.S. officials say that detailing the regime's activities could undermine his political support both at home and abroad.

Messrs. Maduro, Cabello and Hugo Carvajal, a former head of military intelligence, eventually ran the Venezuelan military-linked drug cartel known as Cartel de los Soles, using cocaine provided by FARC in exchange for military-grade machine guns, rocket launchers and training, prosecutors said.

Mr. Maduro's regime helped the FARC move drugs amounting to some 250 tons a year, including via a Caribbean sea route, the indictment said.

Most FARC members disarmed and formed a political party as part of a 2016 peace deal, though some rejected the pact and operate from Venezuela, say U.S. and Colombian officials. The leaders of the now-defunct group say they taxed cocaine traffickers to fund their war but never trafficked cocaine.

"The Maduro regime is awash in corruption and criminality," Attorney General William Barr said. "While the Venezuelan people suffer, this cabal lines their pockets with drug money and the proceeds of their corruption."

Cliver Alcala, a former general indicted alongside Mr. Maduro, denied the charges.

A White House representative couldn't be reached for comment.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0001j





U.S. News: New Law Would Steady, Not Restore, Economy

By Kate Davidson and Josh Mitchell 
729 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The $2 trillion emergency relief package approved by the Senate would help stabilize the coronavirus-battered economy -- but likely isn't enough to bring it back to health.

Preliminary data suggest that the U.S. economy is already shrinking, as businesses close and unemployment soars. The depth of the economic decline in the coming months will depend on how quickly Washington can deliver checks to cash-strapped households and businesses, as well as whether a treatment is found and how soon shutdowns are lifted, economists said.

If passed, the new law would provide loans and other disbursements to a wide swath of the economy, including direct payments to Americans and loans to large and small companies. Rep. Steny Hoyer (D., Md.), the House majority leader, said late Wednesday that the House would consider the stimulus bill on Friday. President Trump has said he would sign it immediately.

"As big as this is, you'll never look back on this and say, 'We went too big.' You'll look back and say, 'What did we miss?'" said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Grant Thornton.

At more than 9% of gross domestic product, the measure is larger than the three major packages enacted to counter the 2007-09 recession, said Ernie Tedeschi, an economist at Evercore ISI. Even so, more will be needed, he said.

"The scale of the problem is accelerating, and it's moving faster than fiscal policy makers are acting," Mr. Tedeschi said.

Economists at Moody's Analytics predict the bill would limit the drop in second-quarter GDP to 17% at an annual rate. Without the legislation, it would have fallen at a nearly 30% rate, they estimate. For the year as a whole, Moody's expects output to decline by 2%.

The measure provides for one-time payments of $1,200 each to many Americans, plus $500 per child, with assistance limited to certain income levels. It expands unemployment insurance and includes $349 billion in loans to small businesses to help them pay workers and cover expenses.

Another $500 billion would be available to the Treasury Department to make or guarantee loans to larger corporations, including airlines, either directly or through lending facilities established by the Federal Reserve.

"All of these different measures are meant to plug the holes in the boat, if you will, as opposed to trying to speed things up," said Wells Fargo economist Michael Pugliese.

Plugging the boat will take time. Trump administration officials said they hope to begin making the first paymentsto households within a few weeks. During the last downturn, it took more than two months.

"A lot of families and businesses can know that help is on the way," said Jason Furman, a Harvard University economics professor and former chairman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers. "Hopefully they can hang on until the help gets there, but the help is not going to come overnight."

Payments to households, estimated to total $300 billion, would likely come in waves, first to people whose information the government already has, such as federal benefit recipients and people who file regular tax returns. Harder to reach may be the most vulnerable: people who don't file taxes because their income is too low.

The payments might be delayed by the burden they place on an underfunded Internal Revenue Service, with a workforce strained by the pandemic and unable to staff taxpayer assistance centers.

Potentially one of the most helpful pieces of the bill, economists said, is a broad expansion in unemployment insurance. The measure would extend benefits to gig economy workers and freelancers and would increase current unemployment assistance by $600 a week for four months.

A new program launched under the Small Business Administration would also take time to distribute $350 billion in loans to companies with fewer than 500 employees. Employers that keep paying workers through the downturn could have the loans forgiven.

Once the program is established, the SBA would then have to assess the eligibility of borrowers. Firms would need to prove the size of their workforce and their previous payroll expenses to determine loan sizes.

Policy makers will probably revisit the programs later in the year to determine whether they have done enough.

---

Richard Rubin contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200327eg3r0002v





World News: Iraq Militants Try Stealth Tactics

By Isabel Coles in Beirut and Ghassan Adnan in Baghdad 
750 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A18
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Iran-backed groups trying to drive U.S. troops out of Iraq have moved to a more clandestine approach that further complicates the Trump administration's response to attacks against American forces.

Marking a shift in a campaign the U.S. has blamed on established Iran-backed militias, an unknown group calling itself the League of Revolutionaries claimed responsibility for the most recent deadly attack, when rockets fired at an Iraqi base on March 11 killed two American troops and a British soldier.

"The incentive now is to create new groups that can carry out the dirty work," said Ramzy Mardini, a scholar at the U.S. Institute of Peace, a Congress-funded think tank in Washington. "You can't do coercion effectively if the U.S. can locate you and retaliate."

As tensions have escalated between the U.S. and Iran, Iraq has emerged as the primary battleground, with more than two dozen rocket attacks targeting American troops in the past six months.

Hostilities in Iraq between the U.S. and Iran intensified in January, after the U.S. killed Iranian Maj. Gen. Qassem Soleimani and Iran responded with a barrage of ballistic missiles fired at two bases housing U.S. troops.

"Having -- very unusually for [the Iranians] -- conducted an attack they took credit for, they now intend to move back into the gray zone and do things [for which] they believe they have plausible deniability," a U.S. official said after the ballistic-missile attack.

A series of retaliatory strikes by the U.S. has failed to deter militant assaults, which Washington blames on Iraqi Shiite militias and their patron, Iran. Tehran denies involvement, as does Kataib Hezbollah, the militia the U.S. has singled out and targeted with airstrikes.

Facing increased threats, the U.S. has begun moving troops to larger bases that can be more easily protected. The hostile environment in Iraq has undermined the fight against Islamic State, as U.S. forces devote greater attention to protecting themselves.

Iranian officials and their allies in Iraq have said their ultimate goal is for U.S. troops to leave the country. The latest intensification of rocket attacks came as efforts to force American troops out through political channels lost steam.

By forming new groups, militants can attack U.S. troops while denying the involvement of established groups such as Kataib Hezbollah, which has vowed revenge for the killing of Gen. Soleimani and an Iraqi commander, who together oversaw militia groups in Iraq.

For the U.S., "it muddies the water in how to respond," said Mr. Mardini.

The logo of the League of Revolutionaries incorporates elements of other Iran-backed militias. A senior military official with the U.S.-led coalition said the group appeared to be "the same old actors organizing themselves differently."

Some Iraqi officials cast doubt on whether the organization exists, describing the video announcing its emergence as amateurish and noting that it offered no evidence it had conducted an attack.

Unlike previous attacks by Iraqi militias, one of those claimed by the new group was conducted in daylight and used a fixed -- instead of a mobile -- rocket launcher. The launcher was similar to those used by other Iran-backed forces, including Hezbollah in Lebanon and the Houthis in Yemen, said Fabian Hinz, an arms researcher at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif.

The formation of a new militant group is a tactic that was used by Iran and its allies against Americans to evade reprisals in the years following the 2003 U.S.-led invasion. The revival of the strategy appears aimed at deflecting blame from the established militias that became a formal part of the country's security apparatus after the war against Islamic State, analysts and officials said.

Plans to form a new group appeared to predate the U.S. killing of the Iranian commander, Gen. Soleimani, an Iraqi official said, with the intention of dialing up pressure on the U.S. ahead of the presidential election in November.

"It is aimed at putting more pressure on the Americans to possibly assess that Iraq is not worth staying in," the official said.

The U.S. has begun resizing its footprint in Iraq. This month, it withdrew forces from the al-Qaim outpost on the border with Syria and said it planned to pull out of others in the coming months.



Document J000000020200327eg3r00064



Heard on the Street
China Is Looking Like a Haven --- Beijing slowed spread of virus and started stimulus but economic damage is uncertain and secondary outbreak can't be ruled out

By Nathaniel Taplin 
640 words
27 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

[Financial Analysis and Commentary]

Western politicians spent January and February excoriating Beijing for its disastrous early attempts to suppress public discussion of the coronavirus. Now Europeans and Americans are paying for their own politicians' refusal to acknowledge the threat, while China's epidemic ebbs and its economy slowly recovers. Should investors lucky enough to have cash be looking at China?

Consider the scoreboard. The U.S. has already cut benchmark lending rates to near zero and 10-year Treasurys yield less than 1%, but the nation's economy remains in free fall. A $2 trillion fiscal stimulus looks close to becoming law -- after precious days lost haggling in Congress -- but more than three million have already lost their jobs. China, meanwhile, has already begun executing a substantial fiscal stimulus, has ample space to push down interest rates, has successfully slowed the spread of the virus -- and its economy is bouncing back, albeit slowly. Which market would you rather be in?

But there are big caveats to this argument. It still isn't clear how deep the damage to Chinese firms from the recent shutdowns really runs, and a secondary outbreak can't be ruled out. Add all this together and bonds -- specifically those issued by the government -- look like a better bet than stocks.

The argument for Chinese government bonds is straightforward. The 10-year variety now yields nearly 2% more than U.S. equivalents. Beijing -- unlike Washington -- still has plenty of scope to push rates lower, and it will need to do so over the coming months to insulate the economy from falling demand abroad. Inflation is likely to cool as farms and domestic transport links revive.

Meanwhile, thanks in part to Beijing's aggressive fiscal response -- including postponing social insurance payments for small businesses -- worst-case scenarios for unemployment and business failures have likely been avoided.

Notably, household optimism seems to be rebounding. In a late February and early March survey of Chinese consumers in 56 cities, more than 80% expected their incomes to increase or stay the same over the coming year, according to Matthews Asia -- up around 10 percentage points from January levels, although still well below December's figure.

More than 80% of migrant workers have now returned from the countryside and other high-frequency measures of economic activity such as coal consumption have also rebounded to around 80% of pre-Lunar New Year levels, according to Morgan Stanley.

Rebounding economic activity doesn't necessarily make stocks a buy, however. March monthly data -- backward looking as it is -- will likely be horrendous. That could shock stocks lower again.

Whether China can really avoid that is the big unknown. After initial missteps, China has had more luck containing the spread of Covid-19 than the U.S. and Europe. The nation's strict censorship was a big disadvantage in preventing the outbreak to begin with, but its authoritarian political structure and infatuation with big-data surveillance also give it tools the West lacks now. China is also far and away the largest producer of medical masks.

The similar success of Northeast Asian neighbors Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, which have very different political systems, suggests cultural factors are at play as well. The traumatic memories of the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak run deep throughout China's periphery. Social distancing and strict preventive hygiene measures sprang up almost immediately after the coronavirus surfaced, due to both government decrees and social pressure. Governments made test approvals, rigorous contact tracing, and mandatory quarantines top priorities.

As Western economies continue to suffer, Chinese government bonds could reward investors. But Chinese stocks remain too risky a bet.



page,5043 

Document J000000020200327eg3r00066



REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: Local Leaders Showing The Way Forward

By Jeb Bush 
622 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

As governor of Florida, I dealt with the aftermath of 9/11, major floods and fires, and an anthrax attack, as well as eight hurricanes and four tropical storms over just 16 months. Each crisis, however difficult, was a learning opportunity. Each made our state and local emergency responders better at their jobs and improved Florida's capacity to deal with future problems.

The coronavirus pandemic is an unprecedented crisis, challenging all of us to protect our families' health and survive the severe economic consequences of self-quarantining. The risks are real, and the path forward is uncertain. But we will get through this, and the experience is likely to bring about significant changes in our society.

First, dealing with the coronavirus will help to restore respect for leadership and expertise. Glued to our television sets, we see mayors, governors and public-health professionals making tough decisions and exuding competence. No "the-dog-ate-my-homework" and "it's-not-my-fault" excuses -- just old-school, inspired leadership.

Once the trauma passes, I feel sure that more Americans will appreciate leadership based on evidence, problem-solving and consensus-building. They will see the importance of skill, professionalism and science-based solutions. Support for these values could go a long way toward reducing the hyperpartisanship that now paralyzes Washington.

Second, for most of our history, America has been a bottom-up country, relying less on the federal government than on what Edmund Burke called the "little platoons" and on governments closer to the people they serve. Over the past generation, we have seen the federal government encroach ever more. The federal government's inability to respond quickly and effectively to the coronavirus is creating a newfound respect for local initiatives, private-sector creativity, personal responsibility and civic engagement. Let us hope that Washington loosens its grip on policy and allows federalism to bloom.

Finally, we need to use today's crisis as a learning opportunity. Millions of Americans are asking: Why does it take so long for a vaccine to become available? How did the U.S. become dependent on Chinese manufacturing for vital pharmaceutical ingredients? How can China build a hospital in weeks while we seem paralyzed? Why do licensing laws restrict health-care providers from providing care? Where on Earth are the ventilators? The list is long and varied.

The explanation for many of these problems is that outdated 20th-century rules stymie 21st-century innovation. In an emergency, many of those rules can be waived by executive order. After the crisis, there will be momentum to challenge the stale rules that hindered our response. This is likely to go well beyond dealing with pandemics.

Telehealth, for instance, should become more commonplace, both because of the shortage of health-care professionals and because of the help it provides in delivering care efficiently. And as millions of American families are discovering, online instruction is a viable means for students to learn. States will need to figure out how to change licensing and payment rules to encourage these revolutions in vital services.

During and after this crisis, across the policy spectrum, in both the public and private sectors, people will ask, "If we weren't doing it this way, how would we do it?" By making this question our post-pandemic mantra, we will become more nimble and innovative, less reliant on Washington and more focused on the long-term issues that will drive America toward a more purposeful and prosperous future.

---

Mr. Bush was the governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007.

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Keeping Government From Playing Catch-Up" -- WSJ Apr. 4, 2020)

Document J000000020200328eg3s00099





U.S. News: Police Practices Are Changing As Pandemic Grips the Country

By Zusha Elinson and Ben Chapman 
872 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Law and order is changing across America during the novel coronavirus pandemic, as police pull back on arrests for small-time crimes and focus on breaking up gatherings that pose health risks, while coping with the perils of a job that can't be done with social distancing.

In Houston, three officers have tested positive for the coronavirus after apprehending a mentally ill man on the street last week who had flu-like symptoms.

"You can't exercise social distancing when you're taking police action," said Houston Police Chief Art Acevedo. "It's part of the risk we take."

In New York City, 236 police employees have tested positive, and 8.9% of the New York Police Department's uniformed officers called in sick Wednesday, more than three times as high as a normal day.

Large agencies such as New York's can use overtime and staggered shifts to cover for sick or quarantined officers, but most of the nation's 18,000 police departments can't.

"If you've got a department of 50 officers and you get 10 of them that get it, that's really a difficult issue," said Tom Manger, retired police chief of Montgomery County, Md. "On the flip side, most departments are seeing many fewer calls for service and the crime rates are really plummeting because no one's out."

So far, crime has fallen on the empty streets of most big U.S. cities, including San Francisco, the first major city to order residents to stay at home. Serious crimes in New York City were down last week compared with a year ago, except for a 50% increase in car thefts. In Chicago, both violent and property crime are slightly below normal levels. In Dallas, violent and property crimes fell last week compared with the previous week.

Law-enforcement officials are paying close attention to the ripple effects of paring back law-enforcement, mass layoffs and lockdown orders. With more people at home, police expect domestic violence to rise. With many shops closed, burglaries and thefts could increase, too.

To help slow the spread of the virus, police chiefs are directing their officers not to arrest people for minor offenses and instead cite and release them. In Philadelphia, police are delaying arrests for nonviolent crimes such as drug offenses and prostitution. In Los Angeles, where eight officers have tested positive, petty criminals aren't being jailed in some cases.

"We are encouraging citing and releasing individuals for low-level nonviolent offenses and that is so we limit everybody's exposure," said Josh Rubenstein, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department.

Dallas police will no longer show up in person to take reports for car break-ins, graffiti and other minor offenses. Residents must file reports online. Two officers there have tested positive.

In Chicago, arrests during the past week were down 46%, and traffic stops and investigatory stops were down 60% compared with a year ago.

In Dallas, there have been 45% fewer arrests to date in March compared with the March 2019 period. New York City had a 42% drop last week when compared the same week last year. In Los Angeles County, arrests dropped from around 300 a day in normal timesto about 60.

In cities and states where residents have been ordered to stay at home, and nonessential businesses have been ordered to close, officers are shifting their time and energy to policing a new social order.

Officers in New York City are patrolling parks to enforce social distancing, visiting restaurants and bars to make sure they are closed, and checking supermarkets and public spaces to make sure crowds are sparse.

In Warrenton, Mo., police arrested 26-year-old Cody Pfister for making a terrorist threat after he posted a widely shared video of himself licking items at a Walmart and saying, "Who's scared of coronavirus?"

His lawyer, Patrick Coyne, said the situation is far different than when the video was made on March 10. "Everything has changed at warp speed, but that should not work retroactively and convert a tasteless and impulsive act into a criminal terrorist threat," he said.

Like many on the front lines of the pandemic, police are struggling with short supplies of face masks. They also are scrambling to sanitize squad cars that are occupied by a variety of officers and suspects.

Officers on dangerous assignments are faced with decisions about whether to wear protective gear or not. Frederick Frazier, a Dallas police detective, said he chose not to wear gloves last week when a fugitive task force he is part of searched for violent offenders."We're not used to those gloves with our weapons," he said.

But some of the fugitives were taking no chances, he said. As they closed in to arrest an alleged marijuana dealer in East Dallas who was wanted for pointing a gun at a police officer, Det. Frazier could see that the suspect was wearing bright blue surgical gloves as he plied his trade. "Man, I don't want to catch corona!" the man said, according to Det. Frazier.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0000t





REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: Never Taking Travel For Granted Again --- Crossing the globe had never been easier, until the coronavirus reminded us of the real meaning of distance.

By Susan Orlean 
667 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Travel had become so easy. In the time before Covid-19, and especially in the last decade, it was as if the map of the Earth had folded upon itself, bringing the furthest corners close together. Borders had thinned to veils, barely there. Once you got where you were going, you hardly felt displaced. You could call home and check your email easily, pull cash from the maw of obliging ATMs anywhere in the world.

Now that we're locked in our houses, travel like this seems so long ago. In fact, travel feels especially implicated in the current crisis, since the mobility we've enjoyed for the last several decades seems to be instrumental in spreading the disease globally. Before crisscrossing the world became commonplace, illnesses were usually local. Now we've become the carriers that spread it world-wide, bringing it along like baggage on cruise ships and airplanes as we hopscotch around the planet.

The era of easy travel came on gradually. Thirty years ago, when I started to travel for my reporting, I readied myself like a soldier. I bought travelers' checks, refilled my prescriptions, did the necessary battery of vaccinations and tetanus boosters, paid any upcoming bills and said purposeful goodbyes, because unless there was an emergency, there would be no connection to home. When things went well, travel back then was immersive in a way it would never be again. Everything familiar was blotted out, allowing you to experience the newness of the place.

But when things went badly, it could be really scary. In 1998, I went to Bhutan to visit a friend. My flight was diverted to Kolkata because the airport in Bhutan was closed; we didn't have visas to enter the country, so we were stripped of our passports, deposited in an airport hotel and ordered to stay in our rooms until we were summoned back to the airport. I didn't have a cellphone (they were rare and expensive at that time). There was no internet. For the first time in my life, no one had any idea of where I was. I don't present this as an ideal travel scenario -- it was upsetting and harrowing -- but it made me realize how profound leaving home really is and what it really means to be away from the familiar.

Since then, the world has become much more fluid, and the convenience of traversing the globe has slightly dulled the dazzle of the experience. Travel is a little less astonishing when, for instance, you can be on a game trail in South Africa and get a text from your son's school saying his lunch order for next month is due. But is convenience why we travel? Isn't part of the purpose to step out of our ordinary lives?

Now no one is traveling, even to the corner cafe, because of the coronavirus pandemic. In the modern era, humankind has probably never been as housebound as it is right now. When the restrictions ease, we will certainly start traveling again. The impulse to explore the world is so powerful that it will roar back in time. We won't shed the handy things that have made travel so much more comfortable than it was in the past, but we will have gone through a reckoning. That folded map of the world has been ironed out a bit by this pandemic. Things feel distant again, literally unreachable, and we might never again take accessibility so much for granted. We may find ourselves once more awed by the very notion that we can go from here to there, from our own worlds into others, and savor it more fully, as something nearly lost can be treasured anew.

---

Ms. Orlean is a staff writer for the New Yorker.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0008v





Corrections & Amplifications
Corrections & Amplifications

177 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The State Department offered a total of $60 million for the arrest and capture of several people charged with drug trafficking and conspiring with terrorists: $15 million for Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, $10 million for each of four other top current and former officials, and $5 million for a senior member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC. In some editions Friday, a World News article about the charges incorrectly said the State Department offered a total of $65 million for the arrest and capture of Mr. Maduro and four current and former officials.

---

Dave Matthews was booked for a live-stream performance on Twitter on Thursday, March 26. A Life & Arts article Thursday about what to watch incorrectly said the performance was scheduled for Wednesday.

(See: "Life & Arts -- What to Watch This Week: Coming to You Live From the Stream" -- WSJ March 26, 2020)

---

Readers can alert The Wall Street Journal to any errors in news articles by e-mailing wsjcontact@wsj.com or by calling 888-410-2667.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0005t





The Coronavirus Pandemic: OECD Warns on Growth Outlook

By Paul Hannon and Amara Omeokwe 
730 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- Measures taken to curb the spread of the new coronavirus could lower economic activity in the U.S. and other developed countries by a quarter, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said Friday.

In a report made available to leaders of the Group of 20 leading economies for a video conference they held Thursday, OECD economists estimated the likely impact on the sectors most affected by widespread business closures and orders for people to remain at home, and the size of those sectors in each national economy.

The OECD calculated that the activities most directly affected by the shutdowns -- ranging from restaurants to automobile makers -- account for between 30% and 40% of total output in most of the developed economies. With activity in many of those sectors curtailed, it calculated that output was likely to be between 20% and 25% lower than is usual in large, developed economies.

If the measures are sustained for three months, the OECD forecast total annual output would be 6% lower in the developed economies. Under this scenario for the U.S., where the economy was forecast to grow 2% this year before the virus struck, the OECD estimates output would fall 4% in 2020.

"Our analysis further underpins the need for sharper action to absorb the shock, and a more coordinated response by governments to maintain a lifeline to people and a private sector that will emerge in a very fragile state when the health crisis is past," OECD Secretary-General Angel Gurria said in the report.

Signs already point to a deterioration in U.S. economic conditions during March, as the number of infections and deaths related to the virus climbed and multiple government authorities ordered nonessential businesses to close and urged people to stay home. A record 3.28 million U.S. workers applied for unemployment benefits just last week, and forecasters now expect the unemployment rate to rise steeply.

The declines in other large economies would be similar to that in the U.S, according to the OECD. The organization's economists estimated that output losses would likely be greatest in Greece, which has a large tourism industry, and least in Ireland, which relies heavily on digital businesses.

Meanwhile in Italy, businesses and consumers became much more gloomy about their prospects this month, as the death toll from the coronavirus continued to climb and an already extensive lockdown tightened further.

Istat, the official Italian statistics agency, said Friday its measure of consumer confidence slumped to 101.0 from 110.9 in February as Italians saw a significant worsening of the economic outlook, while its measure of business confidence plummeted to 81.7 from 97.8. The turn to pessimism among companies was most marked among service providers, many of which have been almost entirely deprived of customers by social distancing.

The consumer confidence reading was the lowest since January 2015, while the business confidence measure was the weakest since December 2011.

Consumer sentiment also soured in the U.S. this month, according to a University of Michigan survey released Friday. The survey's index of consumer sentiment fell to 89.1 in March -- its lowest level since 2016 -- down from 101.0 in February.

The index's drop -- the fourth-largest one-month decline in nearly 50 years -- hints at a broad pullback in spending as the virus upends daily life, said Richard Curtin, the survey's chief economist.

"The extent of additional declines in April will depend on the success in curtailing the spread of the virus and how quickly households receive funds to relieve their financial hardships," he said.

U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Friday he expects the economy to rebound strongly after the widespread shutdown to contain the coronavirus is lifted, adding that the federal government is working at "lightning speed" to provide support.

Asked if he agreed with some investors' view that U.S. economic output could expand by 5% in the fourth quarter, Mr. Mnuchin said, "Absolutely."

Consumers just last month were still buoyed by a solid labor market and firming wages, and in turn boosted spending as personal income rose.

Personal-consumption expenditures, or household spending, ticked up by a seasonally adjusted 0.2% from January and personal income was up 0.6%, the Commerce Department reported Friday.

Document J000000020200328eg3s00007





EXCHANGE --- Banks Get a Break on Bad-Loan Accounting

By Andrew Ackerman 
160 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- U.S. regulators gave banks a reprieve from new accounting standards that require lenders to book losses on soured loans more quickly, the latest step designed to encourage banks to keep lending during the spread of the new coronavirus.

Banks will now have up to two additional years before they must set aside more capital for reserves against loan losses, as required by the new "current expected credit loss," or CECL, accounting standard, regulators said.

The Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks, also said they would speed up the implementation of a new methodology for measuring counterparty credit risk in derivatives transactions.

That move likely reduces the amount of capital lenders have to hold against such transactions because it recognizes improvements to the safety of the derivatives markets since the financial crisis of 2008.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0009b





REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: A Moment to Renew American Statesmanship --- The global challenges ahead demand a return to character, vision and discipline in applying U.S. power.

By William J. Burns 
589 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

In the spring of 1919, as the world's major powers descended on Versailles to negotiate peace after World War I, President Woodrow Wilson was in bed with the flu. At a moment when, as Wilson's doctor put it, "the whole of civilization seemed to be in the balance," a horrific influenza pandemic cast a shadow over the prospect of a new order.

A century later, we find ourselves again crippled by a pandemic during another of those rare plastic moments in world affairs -- a perfect storm of major shifts in the balance of power and massive political, economic, technological and environmental transformations. Great-power rivalry is back; China has risen, and America's old dominance has been spent. The world's economic and military center of gravity is shifting from West to East. A technological revolution is upending how we live, work and fight. Tensions are growing between open and closed societies, with nationalism and authoritarianism resurgent and democracy seemingly in reverse. The tailwinds of globalization have transformed into powerful headwinds, even as climate change looms as an existential threat.

The storm has been gathering for some time, and America's post-Cold War missteps quickened the landfall. Today's coronavirus pandemic will further intensify the storm's severity, with terrible human and economic costs. It will be a painful accelerant -- exposing our vulnerabilities and magnifying the challenge of navigating a crowded, complicated and competitive international landscape.

The crisis will reinforce cocky convictions -- from Moscow to Beijing -- about the demise of a "liberal international order." It will spur strongmen to grip even tighter, bolstered by new surveillance technologies. Narrow-minded nationalists will fan the flames of xenophobia. Key Western democracies, already infected by paralytic politics and constipated governance, will see their crisis of self-confidence deepen.

Connectivity will be seen as a weakness, not a strength, dealing another blow to the fragile European project. The Middle East and Africa, already burdened by conflicts and pathologies, will be exposed to even more troubles. The U.N. and other international institutions, long groaning and creaking, will start to crack, as will the alliances that have bolstered American security. Global humanitarian crises will worsen, their toll compounded by the virus and an increasingly under-resourced and distracted global response.

But shocks like this awful pandemic can clarify as well as accelerate. With brutal impact, they give us a chance to diagnose our challenges with clear eyes. The test for American statesmanship will be to resist the temptation to pull up the drawbridges and retreat, as well as the illusion that we can restore the easy dominance we once enjoyed.

We cannot resurrect the uniquely commanding positions that helped American statesmen in the administrations led by Harry Truman and George H.W. Bush shape similar plastic moments over the past century. But we can revive their model of character, vision and discipline in applying American power. We can rebuild America's democratic example and rekindle the confidence of our allies and the respect of our rivals. Even in this most difficult of moments, we have a rare opening to recover a sense of national purpose and enlightened self-interest and to help Americans -- and the world -- find shelter from the storm.

---

Mr. Burns is the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former deputy secretary of state.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0008t

Search Summary

 Text||  
 Date|03/01/2020 to 04/01/2020|  
 Source|The Wall Street Journal|  
 Author|All Authors|  
 Company|All Companies|  
 Subject|Government Finance Or Economic Performance/Indicators Or Monetary Policy Or Disasters/Accidents Or Crime/Legal Action Or Global/World Issues Or High Net Worth Individuals|  
 Industry|All Industries|  
 Region|All Regions|  
 Language|English|  
 Results Found|332|  
 Timestamp|20 June 2025 6:46|  

