 
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: State's Jobless Surge Signals Wider Trouble
•	REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: Nations Push Back Against a Globalized World --- Dangerous times remind governments that their first loyalty...
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Fed Weighs Support for States --- Local governments are confronting skyrocketing borrowing costs
•	Five Lives. Five Countries. How Virus Swept the Globe. --- Confusion and dread as loved ones fought a relentless pandemic
•	The Weekend Interview with Frank M. Snowden: How Epidemics Change Civilizations
•	U.S. News --- THE OUTLOOK: Jobs Report Will Mask Virus's Heft
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Fed Now Armed With Greater Firepower --- Central bank gets lending responsibility that is typically left up to...
•	State Street: Critics Complain State Budget Is Being Crafted in Secrecy
•	U.S. News: Electric Vehicles Dinged by State Fees
•	Streetwise: There'll Be Debt to Pay After Crisis
•	Life & Arts -- Television Review: Addictive Entertainment
•	U.S. News -- Capital Account: How to Avoid Another Great Recession
•	U.S. Leadership Will Survive Coronavirus
•	Lawmakers Clash Over Medicaid in Budget
•	China's Secrecy Hides Risk to Nations in Its Debt
•	World News: Saudis Invite Houthi Rebels, Yemen Government for Talks
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: China Manufacturing Perked Up in March
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Households Are Set To Receive Payments
•	UAW Leader Faces Possible Ouster Over Harassment Claims
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Scammers Try to Cash In on Virus Panic
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: An Early Van Gogh Painting Is Stolen From Dutch Museum
•	The Fed Takes Uncharted Course to Stem Virus Damage --- Jay Powell has moved the Fed faster and farther than ever, transforming its role
•	Lost at Sea in a Pandemic
•	Pelosi Pitches a Blue-State Bailout
•	U.S. News: Parent in College-Cheating Scandal Gets a 7-Month Prison Term
•	FBI Wiretap Requests Show Persistent Flaws
•	U.S. News: Pandemic Hampers Pending Home Sales
•	World News: Relatives Fear for Jailed Executives
•	Data Breach at Marriott Is the Third in 18 Months
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Federal Prisoners To Be Locked Down
•	The Coronavirus Pandemic: Guatemala Asks U.S. to Halt Deportations of Its Citizens
•	U.S. News: Fed Acts to Reduce Currency Strains




The Coronavirus Pandemic: State's Jobless Surge Signals Wider Trouble

By Kris Maher and Eric Morath 
509 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Pennsylvania, the nation's fifth-most populous state, recorded the largest number of unemployment claims in the U.S., an outsize jump that suggests other states could report higher numbers ahead.

Jobless claims in the Keystone State rose to 378,908 last week, up from 15,439 the prior week, as the state's economy reels from layoffs because of the novel coronavirus.

The number of people filing for benefits represented nearly 5.8% of the state's labor force.

State officials said jobless claims were so high because they actively pushed workers to file for unemployment benefits and didn't see the kinds of disruptions in filing other states experienced. Workers in many parts of the country complained they were unable to access websites and get through on phone lines, meaning other states may be accepting a high volume of delayed filings in the coming weeks.

Also, workers still have plenty of time to file such claims, meaning numbers could rise everywhere as economic prospects dim because of the pandemic. Workers aren't required to file for claims the week they are laid off.

"I think Pennsylvania is indicative of what you're going to see elsewhere," said James Sweeney, chief economist at Credit Suisse. "I think you're going to see claims pick up in a lot of other states in the coming weeks, and that's pretty sobering considering the level we just saw."

Pennsylvania's numbers came out Thursday along with a record number of workers nationwide, nearly 3.3 million, filing for jobless benefits last week.

The state's experience suggests that the stresses facing the nation's unemployment system could grow in the months and weeks ahead, as other states catch up on processing claims and more workers pursue those benefits.

A spokeswoman with the Pennsylvania Labor Department and Industry said the state system didn't suffer major disruptions like those reported in states such as California and New York. The state also relaxed the requirement that the unemployed be actively seeking work to qualify for benefits.

Holly Chapman, 62, of Jefferson Hills, Pa., said she filed a claim online last Tuesday after being laid off from a catering company when a spate of weddings and other events were canceled.

"I think because I was Johnny on the spot, it was relatively painless for me," she said. She added that co-workers who waited a couple of days encountered delays, but were eventually able to complete their claims.

There is also still plenty of time for workers to file claims. Some applying last week may have been laid off before the pandemic hit, but sought benefits as job prospects dimmed.

Ohio had the second-highest number of claims with 187,784, narrowly ahead of California with 186,809. By contrast, in New York, which has nearly seven million more residents than Pennsylvania, 80,334 workers, or about 0.8% of the labor force, filed for jobless benefits.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0000q





REVIEW --- After the Pandemic: Nations Push Back Against a Globalized World --- Dangerous times remind governments that their first loyalty is to their own citizens.

By Gerard Baker 
662 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
C6
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

There are no atheists in foxholes, it's said, and we are learning quickly that there are no free traders in a pandemic.

As the coronavirus spread its deadly tentacles across Europe earlier this month, the German government announced a ban on exports of surgical face masks. Shipments of the masks that were already on their way to neighboring countries were turned back at the border. The country that repeatedly lauds the borderless economy and castigates those narrow-minded nationalists who would build walls, restrict trade and favor their people over the interests of "global citizens" is now hoarding vital equipment to keep Germans alive at the expense of fellow Europeans. When it comes to the lives of its people, you might even say it's Germany First.

No one should be surprised at or critical of the Germans. Any government's primary responsibility is to protect its citizens. Despite the grandiose rhetoric of the most ambitious globalizers, it seems that nations still take primacy over supranational ideals and institutions. Never more so than in an emergency.

The coronavirus outbreak has sent the world into geopolitical as well as literal, home-based lockdown. International travel has collapsed, subject to tight restrictions as countries close borders. Trade is slumping as global supply chains are disrupted. Capital is coming home as investors seek safety. National governments almost everywhere are undertaking massive fiscal and monetary programs to breathe some life into moribund national economies.

Countries are seeking to do what they can to bolster their own standing in a moment of global panic. The U.S. points a finger at China as the origin of the virus. China promotes absurd conspiracy theories about the U.S. Rogue nations like Russia and Cuba try to polish their reputations with public relations stunts like sending aid to stricken Italy.

The larger question is what will happen when all of this is over? While trade, travel and international cooperation will surely come back from their crisis levels, it's not hard to see this outbreak as marking the most decisive break yet with our globalized system.

The backlash against globalization has been perhaps the defining political trend of the past decade. For all the benefits it clearly brought -- low-cost production and highly efficient capital markets -- the distribution of costs in an integrated global economy has been heavily skewed toward the less advantaged in developed economies such as the U.S. Add to that the cultural alienation felt by many of those people as their more fortunate and successful fellow citizens looked down on them, and you got the populist revolution of 2016.

After this crisis, global supply chains with limited inventory will be regarded with much more caution by CEOs and shareholders. Nations' need to maintain supplies of vital lifesaving equipment will accelerate the repatriation of significant production. Businesses will discover that all that expensive international travel that seemed so crucial can actually be replaced by videoconferencing and other technologies. Governments and peoples will view each other with a lasting mistrust as we learn more about the falsehoods we were told.

Above all, the renewed sense of fragility that we all feel today will surely strengthen the bonds of national community. We feel a special solidarity with each other as we watch our doctors and nurses bravely saving lives in New York and New Orleans, just as Germans will feel the same with theirs in Dresden and Dortmund.

The pandemic that has struck down the world economy is the most powerful reminder yet that the globalized world we have created in the last half-century is a construct -- as well as, to some extent, a creator -- of a world of peace and security. It may not survive a less stable world.

---

Mr. Baker is The Journal's Editor at Large.

Document J000000020200328eg3s00002





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Fed Weighs Support for States --- Local governments are confronting skyrocketing borrowing costs

By Nick Timiraos and Heather Gillers 
743 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Federal Reserve officials are reviewing new ways to support financing for state and local governments, many of which are on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic and will face huge borrowing needs as revenues plunge, according to people familiar with the matter.

The economic-rescue legislation Congress approved this week asks the Fed to charge headlong into areas it has long considered taboo -- supporting lending to businesses, cities and states.

The Fed traditionally avoided intervening directly in credit and fiscal policy, preferring to leave such matters to Congress and the White House.

That is changing now because of the fast-moving economic crisis -- and because Congress has essentially directed the Fed to get more involved by providing $454 billion to the Treasury to cover any losses in new Fed lending programs.

The Fed has dramatically expanded its balance sheet over the past two weeks, by nearly $942 billion to $5.25 trillion as of Wednesday. The central bank has lent freely to help firms avoid a wave of defaults that could turn a recession into something much worse.

Over two weeks, the Fed has unveiled six lending facilities, five of them enjoying a total of $50 billion in support from the Treasury. Those programs have freed up cash for major Wall Street institutions and will backstop money-market funds and markets for commercial debt.

Democratic lawmakers have made support for city and state borrowing a priority in recent legislative talks, and the latest bill directs the Treasury secretary to seek a Fed lending program for municipal finance.

State and local governments are confronting skyrocketing borrowing costs even as they are straining to pay expenses associated with the spread of the virus. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi told Fed Chairman Jerome Powell last week "to think big and help our states," she said in an interview on PBS this week. "They are taking a big bite of this wormy apple and they need much more in terms of resources."

Under its governing law, the Fed can't directly buy corporate debt, and it is limited to purchasing municipal debt of six months or less.

But it can work around these restrictions by creating lending facilities that lend or purchase debt, subject to approval of the Treasury secretary.

The Fed has already dipped a toe into muni-debt markets by expanding a money-market lending backstop to include certain types of municipal debt -- and by purchasing some highly rated municipal debt in a facility backing the market for very short-term commercial debt.

As of Wednesday, short-term interest costs on variable-rate municipal bonds have more than tripled compared with two weeks ago and are now higher than the rates governments typically pay on 30-year bonds, according to an index maintained by the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.

Monday's announcement by the Fed to include more municipal debt in existing lending facilities appears to have made only a small dent, bringing the index, which tracks bonds that adjust their rates weekly according to what investors are willing to pay, to 4.7% down from 5.2% the prior Wednesday.

Interest rates on other short-term muni debt that spiked last week have fallen after the Fed said Monday it would purchase some municipal variable rate debt. Rates on water, power and sewer bonds issued by New York City and Los Angeles fell back to their typical rates of between 1% and 2% Thursday after hitting nearly 8% on Friday.

Kent Hiteshew, who established an office of state and local finance at the Treasury Department in the Obama administration, has been hired by the Fed to advise on muni markets, according to people familiar with the matter.

Among the questions Fed officials are considering: Whether to expand existing facilities to accommodate other municipal debt or to launch a new facility devoted to state and local finance. Fed officials will have to decide which municipal debt might be eligible for support and on what terms.

There are limits to how far the Fed can lend using its emergency authorities. Its loans must be well secured, which the Fed typically satisfies by restricting borrowing to highly rated issuers.

The Fed and Treasury brainstormed on ways to support hard-hit state and local treasuries after the 2008 financial crisis, but opted against doing so.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0000p





Five Lives. Five Countries. How Virus Swept the Globe. --- Confusion and dread as loved ones fought a relentless pandemic

This article was reported by Niharika Mandhana in Singapore, Drew Hinshaw in Warsaw, Kim Mackrael in Ottawa, Eric Sylvers in Milan and Suryatapa Bhattacharya in Tokyo, and was written by Ms. Mandhana 
3,189 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Raju Sarker had been sick in his dormitory for two days, staying away from the Singapore construction site where he worked. He had a headache and chills. His stomach didn't feel right. He was exhausted.

But on a phone call with his wife on Feb. 5, the 39-year-old put on a brave face. She was back home in Bangladesh, two months from giving birth. Mr. Sarker, hoping for a baby girl, had been thinking about what his firstborn would call him: Baba, or perhaps Abba.

"Don't worry," he said, ending the conversation in under two minutes. He didn't tell his wife he had borrowed $250 from his employer that morning to go to the hospital, nor about his cough, persistent and draining. The next day, he ignored her calls altogether. He'd speak to her when he felt a little better, he thought, and texted: "I'll call you later."

At the hospital, doctors sent him straight to the intensive-care unit. A mysterious new virus had emerged in China and begun springing up in neighboring countries, including Singapore. Mr. Sarker didn't know much about it, except that since Lunar New Year in January, he and his team, which installed information-technology infrastructure in data centers and office towers, had been instructed to wear face masks on the job.

Governments were calling it the novel coronavirus. Over the next two months, it would spread widely, carried by the most-connected human population in history to all corners of the world.

In this era of globalization, families scattered across continents would watch from afar with confusion, dread and helpless foreboding as their loved ones fought a disease the world knew very little about.

It would upend five lives, all exposed to the virus as it traveled from country to country, week after week.

But before all that, on the afternoon of Feb. 8, Mr. Sarker's coronavirus test came back. It was positive.

Budapest

In Paris, dining on truffle ravioli and the first oysters of his life, Gabor Szabo and his Brazilian wife wondered if they should be worried about the sickness that had arrived in Europe. It was Feb. 16, their seventh anniversary, and they were a long way from home, Rio de Janeiro. The couple would soon fly to Hungary to spend time with Gabor's dad, a cancer patient.

Battling lymphoma at age 70, Albert Szabo was eager to get to know the daughter-in-law he had recently met for the first time. For years, the family had drifted apart. Gabor chased jobs from construction to running his own restaurant in South America, enjoying a global lifestyle once incomprehensible for his father, a Hungarian who grew up under Communist dictatorship.

Previously, the elder Mr. Szabo had been able to speak to his daughter-in-law only in short messages typed into Google translate, each Portuguese-Hungarian exchange full of humorous errors.

The family had spent two days at the home of Mr. Szabo, a retired truck driver, when Gabor developed a fever, sore throat and cough. He visited a hospital that sent him back to his father's house without testing for coronavirus. The ailment cleared up.

On Feb. 23, the elder Mr. Szabo noticed he had the same symptoms. "There is nothing wrong, these are just side effects of chemotherapy," he told the couple.

Milan

With infections of the recently named Covid-19 disease surging in Italy, authorities had begun quarantining towns in the country's wealthy north. Ivo Cilesi thought he might still manage to make a quick road trip from his apartment outside Milan to Genoa, the seaside town of his youth.

A renowned therapist, he had pioneered a technique of treating dementia patients with imaginary train rides, earning the nickname Dr. Train. Nursing homes tended to inject these elderly full of sedatives. Instead, he helped them cope with music or dolls, aiming to bring dignity to the people society tended to shove aside.

He and his partner had already packed their bags for a long weekend, when on Feb. 26 he found himself strangely exhausted. "Why go to the beach," he said, "if we're just going to be stuck inside because I'm not feeling well." They stayed home.

At breakfast on Friday, Mr. Cilesi suddenly panicked. "I can hardly breathe, I can hardly breathe," he gasped.

"Relax, what's going on?" his partner asked.

As she dialed Italy's 112 emergency number, a thought struck her: He wasn't protesting her call for an ambulance. He was shaking.

Tehran

The doctor said 10% of Aitai Shakibafar's lungs were damaged. She quickly became a suspect for the new disease that was spreading rapidly through her country, Iran. Twice, Ms. Shakibafar had coughed up blood in her hands, her nails still painted with the Minnie Mouse icon from the beauty salon where the 30-year-old wondered if she'd caught it.

A female photojournalist in a male-dominated industry, Ms. Shakibafar was often the only woman snapping pictures from the scene of a disaster. Rather than join her sister in Canada, she preferred to take her camera to far-flung corners of their home country reeling from floods and economic deprivation.

At dusk on March 5, Ms. Shakibafar lay down in the back seat of her car with her father behind the wheel, racing through the streets of Tehran. The hospital waiting-room was teeming with people. But medical staff saw she was having trouble breathing.

As she was being admitted to the intensive-care unit, she felt faint. Someone got her a wheelchair.

Washington, D.C.

The same day, Liza Paqueo, a specialist in urban forest programs at the U.S. Forest Service in Washington, D.C., was surprised to see missed FaceTime calls from her mother in the Philippine capital Manila, where it was well past midnight.

The two spoke every day, often more than once. Her mother sometimes called in the middle of the night to nudge Liza to play her turn on Words With Friends, an online Scrabble-like game the two competed fiercely on. Her mother had last made D-O-L-T for 36 points, followed by H-O-A-X by Liza. It was her mother's turn.

That day, though, the call was about something else. Her mother, Nida Cortes Paqueo, was in a hospital bed. An X-ray showed she had pneumonia in her right lung. Liza was shocked, but didn't think it could be the novel coronavirus. There were still only a limited number of cases in the Philippines, and U.S. figures were just starting to grow.

Besides, her mother took long walks, danced the rumba with friends she had known for half a century and, while she had a sore throat and fatigue for a few days, nothing seemed especially alarming. Mrs. Paqueo had enjoyed a steak dinner for her 67th birthday a few days earlier.

Now in the hospital, she was losing her appetite. Mrs. Paqueo asked family members to bring her fruit and a salty shrimp dish. But when they did, she would often not eat.

Liza scolded her mother, so on FaceTime, Mrs. Paqueo showed her she was eating bread and sausage.

"Good job," Liza said. "Now don't ask for your usual Coke Zero. You need calories." she added, making her mother laugh, then cough.

Milan

A doctor and an ambulance crew stormed through the door of Giovanna Lucchelli's apartment outside Milan. Her partner, the therapist colleagues called Dr. Train, was struggling to breathe.

Medics fitted an airway pressure-release ventilator onto his face. At the hospital, Ms. Lucchelli paced the corridor while her partner vanished into an X-ray room. A chest scan showed he had progressed to pneumonia. Doctors thought: coronavirus. They carried Mr. Cilesi, by now unconscious, into an isolation ward, closed off to all but a strained crew of physicians racing to handle the influx.

They would have to wait and see if his oxygen levels crept up.

Ms. Lucchelli returned home for the evening, expecting the hospital to call. Normally, when the two weren't together, Mr. Cilesi dialed many times daily, or called her sister if she didn't answer. "Make sure your phone is always charged so I can reach you anytime," he would say.

The next morning, the doctor gave her the news. The test was positive for coronavirus. Mr. Cilesi was taken to a larger hospital, and given experimental-drug treatments and muscle relaxants to prevent chest damage. Tubed into a high-performance ventilator, he was rolled onto his belly to give his lungs room to expand.

Every time she dialed the hospital helpline for updates, the doctors were too busy, the staff stressed. She wondered where her partner had contracted coronavirus, maybe in one of the three hospitals where he worked, in between a life of research and medical conferences abroad.

Friends of Ms. Lucchelli told her not to worry. Mr. Cilesi was relatively young, full of energy and strong like his father. This is like the flu, well-wishers said, and he would recover. Only the very old and very sick don't, they said.

Budapest

At Albert Szabo's cancer-related checkups in Hungary, physicians chalked up his high temperature to lymphoma complications. But by March 5, he was exhausted and could eat nothing more than a few bites of a banana or tangerine. When he told a doctor he was struggling to breathe, confusion shot through the room.

"Why didn't you start with that?" the doctor asked, scouring his medical history for an explanation.

Hospital staff fit Mr. Szabo with an oxygen mask while the doctor worked on a diagnosis. Maybe it was a postsurgery pulmonary embolism? he wondered.

Then Mr. Szabo's son Gabor mentioned the possibility of coronavirus. It hadn't been their first thought, but medics rushed into action, putting on face masks and scrambling to protect themselves. The elder Mr. Szabo was frightened and numb as medical staff carried him away, his face obscured by the oxygen mask. Normally, the tough old man would have said a few defiant words, his son thought.

Two days later, Gabor got a call from a brother elsewhere in Hungary: "They were just saying on TV that our father is the fifth patient in Hungary with coronavirus."

Singapore

That night, in an isolation room in Singapore, Mr. Sarker's blood pressure was dropping fast. Doctors summoned his local contact, Jakir Khan, a man Mr. Sarker had grown up with in Bangladesh. An image of Mr. Sarker's lungs showed cloudy white patches, which meant heavy damage. His kidneys weren't working either.

Mr. Khan made a video call to Mr. Sarker's wife in Bangladesh. He didn't share the details of her husband's dire condition, worried it could trigger complications in her pregnancy a few weeks from childbirth. But if these were his final moments, she should at least see him, Mr. Khan thought.

He pressed the phone against the glass wall of the isolation room. Mr. Sarker lay on his stomach, his face turned to one side, obscured by tubes. She strained to see. Mr. Khan panned the camera toward a cluster of doctors. "Look, they're all working very hard. Just pray for him," he said to her.

No one had spelled it out, but Sanjida Akhter could tell her husband's life was in real danger. Her parents had been crying. An only son, Mr. Sarker sent money to support his wife and widowed mother. The last time he was home, in the summer of 2019, she cooked him his favorite foods: beef curry, taro stir fry.

In July, she learned she was pregnant, and when Mr. Sarker left for Singapore, they agreed he would return after the birth. She wondered now if her husband would live to see their child.

That night, unbeknown to her, her father grappled with a wrenching question: If Mr. Sarker died, would they want the body flown back home? He came to the conclusion that they would. For peace of mind.

Still, there were logistical matters to consider. The body needed to be washed before burial under Islamic customs, but that wouldn't be possible because of the infection, he was told. They would also need permission from Bangladesh authorities.

Manila

Mrs. Paqueo was a planner. She had picked out her burial plot in her hometown of Surigao in the Philippines years ago. It is on a hill overlooking open waters. She'd instructed her family and friends she wanted her funeral to be a party. Her favorite song "What a Wonderful World" by Louis Armstrong, would play, and tunes by Earth, Wind & Fire.

By March 8, the pneumonia had spread to her left lung. She and her husband, a 72-year-old economist who had worked for years at the World Bank, were tested for Covid-19. They saw each other briefly that day before being taken to separate rooms. The results would come in 48 hours.

Medics put a breathing mask over her face and fitted her with a feeding tube.

From the U.S., her daughter Liza inquired about the coronavirus test every few hours. A U.S. citizen, she has lived in the country since 1985, when her parents moved there for work. The disease was now spreading in America.

A specialist in infectious diseases gave a webinar at her office. Liza asked if Tamiflu, which was being given to her parents, would be effective against Covid-19. The expert said most likely not.

Tehran

In the intensive-care unit in Tehran, Ms. Shakibafar breathed through an oxygen mask, garbed in a purple hospital gown. There were nine beds in the room, which was filled with patients like her who were struggling to breathe. Ms. Shakibafar's Covid-19 test came back positive several days after she was admitted.

People were dying around her. Hospital staff rushed into the room several times, drawing a curtain and intubating a near-death patient. If their efforts failed, the body was wheeled out.

When she felt able, Ms. Shakibafar talked to some of her neighbors. She cajoled a bearded man who looked to be in his 50s to eat. The next morning, his bed was empty. At first the nurses said he'd been moved to a hospital ward, not wanting to upset her. When she asked again, they said he had died.

The nurses counseled her. "More than drugs, hope can help you," one said. They also talked about their own worries on the medical front lines.

Ms. Shakibafar struggled with the sense of doom around her. She played an Iranian love song from the 1990s on her phone and sometimes sang along, mumbling into her oxygen mask.

After five days in the ICU that felt like a terrible nightmare, Ms. Shakibafar was sent to a ward and then discharged. She cried. "I saw the sky with a different perspective," she said.

Milan

Mr. Cilesi, the 61-year-old Italian therapist, never regained consciousness after his collapse that late-February day when he was rushed to the emergency room in the middle of breakfast. On March 2, Ms. Lucchelli learned he had died overnight.

She sent a suit and a photo of Mr. Cilesi to the mortuary, but the risk of contracting the virus was too high for the morticians, who could only lay the clothes atop the body before they cremated it. At least dress him in a hat, she asked. "Ivo loved hats."

Washington, D.C.

Liza got an urgent text from Manila as she had a late lunch on March 10. On the phone with a relative, she learned her mother's heart had stopped. Doctors gave Mrs. Paqueo chest compressions for eight minutes and revived her.

Liza took an Uber to her brother's house to be with family. It was there that she got the call. Mrs. Paqueo's pupils were dilated. Their mother had passed away at 7:27 a.m. on March 11, the day the coronavirus was officially declared a pandemic.

Her coronavirus test came back positive a few hours later, as did her husband's. He is still fighting the disease. Mrs. Paqueo was cremated. Her burial plot lies empty.

Budapest

The medical team in Hungary didn't think Mr. Szabo would last even a week. The odds were bleak for the 70-year-old retired truck driver, still battling lymphoma from a coronavirus isolation ward.

But on March 11, a doctor woke him up, and told the old man that his family was with him. Mr. Szabo, on a ventilator, couldn't speak but blinked to signal he understood. There was surprising news: His lungs and circulation were both improving, though he still wasn't out of the woods.

The doctor called it a miracle. Gabor thinks his father may have been lucky. Being one of Hungary's first patients, doctors were able to give him their full attention.

Recovered from his own likely bout of coronavirus, Gabor plans on staying in Europe in the months to come, perhaps taking up work in Sweden to support his parents. After years in Brazil and a battle with a global pandemic, he thinks maybe now is the time to remain close to family.

"My father is showing again how tough he is," his son said. "It's hard to take out my dad, he is like an old oak tree."

Bangladesh

In Bangladesh, Sanjida felt desperate. Her baby was due in a few weeks and Mr. Sarker had been in intensive care for more than a month. She wanted to see her husband.

Since she couldn't travel to Singapore, doctors agreed to hold up a phone close to his face on a WhatsApp video call. Mr. Sarker's eyes were closed, sunken, but he could hear, doctors said.

The last time the two had spoken to each other, more than a month ago on Feb. 5, he had told her not to worry. She had the same message for him. She wanted to sound upbeat, and somehow pull him back from the jaws of death.

"You're having a son," she said. "I went to the doctor and he said I'm due to give birth on April 1. Get better and come home soon."

Mr. Sarker's latest Covid-19 test came back negative. But after seven weeks in the hospital, he still can't breathe on his own, and his condition remains critical. Every day, Sanjida worries she's one step closer to her child's birth and perhaps her husband's death.

Her hospital bag for the delivery is packed.

---

Szabolcs Panyi contributed to this article.



Document J000000020200328eg3s00039



The Weekend Interview with Frank M. Snowden: How Epidemics Change Civilizations

By Jason Willick 
1,791 words
28 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A15
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

To put the coronavirus pandemic in perspective, consider what happened when the bubonic plague struck London in 1665. The onset of the disease could be sudden, says Yale historian Frank Snowden: "You actually have people afflicted and in agony in public spaces." Trade and commerce swiftly shut down, and "every economic activity disappeared." The city erected hospitals to isolate the sick. "You have the burning of sulfur in the streets -- bonfires to purify the air."

Some 100,000 Londoners -- close to a quarter of the population, equivalent to two million today -- died. Some sufferers committed suicide by "throwing themselves into the Thames," Mr. Snowden says. "Such was their horror at what was happening to their bodies, and the excruciating pain of the buboes" -- inflamed lymph nodes -- that are the classic symptom of the bubonic plague. Social order broke down as the authorities fled. "Death cart" drivers went door to door, collecting corpses for a fee and sometimes plundering the possessions of survivors.

The plague's violent assaults on European cities in the Middle Ages and Renaissance periods created "social dislocation in a way we can't imagine," says Mr. Snowden, whose October 2019 book, "Epidemics in Society: From the Black Death to the Present" -- a survey of infectious diseases and their social impact -- is suddenly timely.

I interviewed Mr. Snowden, 73, over Skype. We're both home in lockdown, I in California and he in Rome, where he's gone to do research in the Vatican archives. In the mid-14th century, Italy was "the most scourged place in Europe with the Black Death," he notes. In the 21st century, it's among the countries hardest hit by Covid-19.

Science has consigned the plague, caused by the flea- and rat-borne bacterium Yersinia pestis, to the margins of public-health concern (though it remains feared as a potential aerosolized bioweapon). Yet its legacy raises challenging questions about how the coronavirus might change the world.

For all the modern West's biomedical prowess, some of its blunt tools against a poorly understood disease are similar to what was first attempted in the 14th century. Take quarantine. Hundreds of millions of Americans and Europeans are isolated in their homes in an effort to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

Isolation as a defense against infectious disease originated in the city-states of Venice and Florence. Italy was the center of Mediterranean trade, and the plague arrived in 1347 on commercial ships. The dominant theory at the time was "miasmatism" -- the atmosphere was poisoned -- perhaps by visitors' garments -- and people get sick "when they breathe that in, or absorb it through their pores," Mr. Snowden says. "That is, there is some emanation, and it can be thought to be coming from the soil, or from the bodies" of sick people.

After plague visitations, the Venetian navy eventually began to force sailors arriving at the harbor to disembark on a nearby island, where they remained for 40 days -- quaranta -- a duration chosen for its biblical significance. The strategy worked when it was enforced as disease-ridden fleas died out and the sick died or recovered. Mr. Snowden notes that Americans returning from Wuhan, China, in early February were "detained on army bases for a quarantine period" -- 14 days rather than 40.

"We can see the roots of many aspects of modern health already in the Renaissance," he adds. Another example is the wax "plague costume" worn by physicians. It resembled modern-day medical garb -- "the protective garments that you see in the hospital for people dealing with Ebola, or this sort of space suit" -- but with a long beak containing resonant herbs. They were thought to "purify the air that you were breathing in." The costume "did, in fact, have some protective value," Mr. Snowden says, because the wax repelled the fleas that carried the disease.

Antiplague efforts dramatically changed Europeans' relationship to government. "The Florentines established what were called health magistrates, which are the ancestors of what today we call boards of health or departments of health," Mr. Snowden explains. "Endowed with special legal powers," they coordinated plague countermeasures.

The plague was more traumatic than a military assault, and the response was often warlike in its ferocity. One response was a "sanitary cordon," or encircling of a city-state with soldiers, who didn't allow anyone in or out. "Imagine one's own city, and suddenly, in the morning, it's cordoned off by the National Guard with fixed bayonets and helmets on, and orders to shoot if we cross," Mr. Snowden says. Cordons were regularly imposed in European cities in times of plague risk, leading to terror and violence. In the 18th century, the Austrian army was "deployed to prevent bubonic plague from moving up the Balkan Peninsula and into Western Europe" by halting travelers who might be carrying it.

The sociologist Charles Tilly (1929-2008) famously argued that "war makes the state" -- that borders and bureaucracies were forged by necessity in military conflict. Plague had similar effects, requiring "military commitment, administration, finance and all the rest of it," Mr. Snowden says. In addition to a navy to enforce quarantines, "you needed to have a police power," a monopoly on force over a wide area. Sometimes "watchmen were stationed outside the homes of people who had the plague, and no one was allowed in or out."

Yet while the plague saw power move up from villages and city-states to national capitals, the coronavirus is encouraging a devolution of authority from supranational units to the nation-state. This is most obvious in the European Union, where member states are setting their own responses. Open borders within the EU have been closed, and some countries have restricted export of medical supplies. The virus has heightened tensions between the U.S. and China, as Beijing tries to protect its image and Americans worry about access to medical supply chains.

The coronavirus is threatening "the economic and political sinews of globalization, and causing them to unravel to a certain degree," Mr. Snowden says. He notes that "coronavirus is emphatically a disease of globalization." The virus is striking hardest in cities that are "densely populated and linked by rapid air travel, by movements of tourists, of refugees, all kinds of businesspeople, all kinds of interlocking networks."

The social dynamics of a pandemic are determined partly by who is most affected. Cholera, for example, "is famously associated with social and class tensions and turmoil," Mr. Snowden says. A vicious gastrointestinal infection, it was most prevalent in crowded urban tenements with contaminated food or water. "We could pick Naples, or we could pick New York City in the 19th century," he says. "Municipal officials, the authorities, the doctors, the priests, the middle classes, the wealthy, who live in different neighborhoods, are not succumbing to this disease." That led to conspiracy theories about its origin, and to working-class riots.

Similarly, the bubonic plague struck India, then a British colony, in the late 19th century. The British responded by introducing Renaissance-era antiplague measures -- "very draconian exercises of power and authority, but by a colonial government, over the native population," Mr. Snowden says. "The population of India regarded this as more fearful than the plague itself" and resisted. Britain, worried that "this would be the beginning of modern Indian nationalism," backed off the measures, which were mostly ineffective anyway.

Respiratory viruses, Mr. Snowden says, tend to be socially indiscriminate in whom they infect. Yet because of its origins in the vectors of globalization, the coronavirus appears to have affected the elite in a high-profile way. From Tom Hanks to Boris Johnson, people who travel frequently or are in touch with travelers have been among the first to get infected.

That has shaped the political response in the U.S., as the Democratic Party, centered in globalized cities, demands an intensive response. Liberal professionals may also be more likely to be able to work while isolated at home. Republican voters are less likely to live in dense areas with high numbers of infections and so far appear less receptive to dramatic countermeasures.

Infectious disease can change the physical landscape itself. Mr. Snowden notes that when Napoleon III rebuilt Paris in the mid-19th century, one of his objectives was to protect against cholera: "It was this idea of making broad boulevards, where the sun and light could disperse the miasma." Cholera also prompted expansions of regulatory power over the "construction of houses, how they had to be built, the cleanliness standards." If respiratory viruses become a more persistent feature of life in the West, changes to public transportation and zoning could also be implemented based on our understanding of science -- which, like Napoleon's, is sure to be built upon or superseded in later years.

In ancient literature, from Homer's "Iliad" to the Old Testament, plagues are associated with the idea that man is being punished for his sins, Mr. Snowden observes. Venetian churches were built to demonstrate repentance. Mr. Snowden also highlights the Flagellants of the 14th and 15th centuries, who would embark on a "40-day procession of repentance, self-chastisement and prayer," whipping themselves and others.

For Europeans who survived the plague, Mr. Snowden says, it impressed the idea that "you could be struck down at any moment without warning," so you should focus on your immortal soul. Paintings often featured symbols like "an hourglass with the sands running out, a flower that's wilting."

Coronavirus is far less lethal, but it does shatter assumptions about the resilience of the modern world. Mr. Snowden says that after World War II "there was real confidence that all infectious disease were going to be a thing of the past." Chronic and hereditary diseases would remain, but "the infections, the contagions, the pandemics, would no longer exist because of science." Since the 1990s -- in particular the avian flu outbreak of 1997 -- experts have understood that "there are going to be many more epidemic diseases," especially respiratory infections that jump from animals to humans. Nonetheless, the novel coronavirus caught the West flat-footed.

It's too early to say what political and economic imprint this pandemic will leave in its wake. As Mr. Snowden says, "there's much more that isn't known than is known." Yet with a mix of intuition and luck, Renaissance Europeans often kept at bay a gruesome plague whose provenance and mechanisms they didn't understand. Today science is capable of much more. But modernity has also left our societies vulnerable in ways 14th-century Venetians could never have imagined.

---

Mr. Willick is an editorial page writer at the Journal.

Document J000000020200328eg3s0000h





U.S. News --- THE OUTLOOK: Jobs Report Will Mask Virus's Heft

By Eric Morath and Paul Kiernan 
952 words
30 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Corrections & Amplifications

The last name of Brent Neiman, a University of Chicago economist, was misspelled as Nieman in The Outlook column in Monday's U.S. News section.

(WSJ March 31, 2020)

(END)

The March employment report will show a hit to the U.S. job market due to the novel coronavirus pandemic, but it is unlikely to show the depth of the crash because the data reflect the month's first weeks.

Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal expect Friday's report to show U.S. employers shed 56,000 jobs from payrolls -- snapping a record 113-month stretch of job creation -- and the unemployment rate edged up to 3.7% from a 50-year low of 3.5% in February.

Both predictions, from a survey of eight economists late last week, are far less dire than the picture drawn by the record 3.3 million Americans who filed for unemployment benefits from March 15 through 21, after many government authorities ordered closures of swaths of the economy to stem the virus's spread.

That's because the March report, like nearly all Labor Department employment reports, is based on surveys asking about the week or pay period that includes the 12th day of the month. A survey of households that determines the unemployment rate asked Americans if they reported to work during the week of March 8-14. If respondents were paid for a single hour of work that week -- even if they were subsequently laid off -- they are counted as employed.

As a result, the March jobs report will primarily reflect the labor market in the first two weeks of the month, when the U.S. was struggling to ramp up testing for the virus. That was before the number of virus-related infections and deaths jumped and several governors ordered nonessential businesses to close, forcing layoffs of millions of Americans, including waiters, hotel staff, auto workers and dental hygienists.

Friday's report is "not going to really capture the significant damage out there that occurred," said Joseph Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US LLC. "Investors and policy makers should just throw it out. It's just a remembrance of things past."

If the shutdowns continue for a few more weeks, the April jobs report, scheduled for release May 8, could show the greatest one-month deterioration of the labor market on record.

Depending on how the pandemic evolves, the report released in May could show unemployment soaring toward double digits and more than one million jobs slashed. That would mark the largest one-month drop in payrolls since Japan surrendered to the U.S. in September 1945, prompting the country to wind down its wartime efforts.

Future jobs reports could be even worse.

A rule of thumb, Mr. Brusuelas said, is that unemployment rises by 1 percentage point for every 1.5 million initial jobless claims. Given last week's record-shattering unemployment claims, the jobless rate will likely approach at least 6% in April and exceed 10% by midsummer, Mr. Brusuelas said, adding the numbers could keep climbing.

That's because a huge number of American workers are employed in service industries that have been shuttered. Leisure and hospitality -- hotels, restaurants, arts and entertainment -- employed 16.9 million Americans as of February, Labor Department data show.

While millions of workers are working remotely now, just 34% of American jobs can plausibly be performed at home, University of Chicago economists Jonathan Dingel and Brent Nieman estimate.

"There is the chance we could see depression-like unemployment numbers by the time we're through," Mr. Brusuelas said.

The Labor Department's survey of employers asks for their establishment's head count for the payroll period that includes March 12. If a worker was paid for any portion of that period, they are counted as being on a payroll.

Erica Groshen, the former commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said underlying data in the report could give clues to the virus's emerging impact. Watch for employment cuts in temporary-help jobs and the number of hours worked. It's possible wage growth could tick up, because the first wave of job cuts hit lower-wage workers while better-paid employees were more likely to be able to work remotely -- causing the average to rise.

The coming report is also subject to unusual statistical distortions. Survey responses could be low if businesses have closed. Statistical models that smooth seasonal patterns and predict the pace at which business close and open could be worthless. And some of the people who lost their jobs may be counted as out of the labor force, rather than unemployed, because they aren't actively seeking work at a time when the virus has shut businesses and many are responsible for caring for children or ill family members.

Some economists are bracing for a darker report on Friday. Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors, forecasts the data will show 1.25 million jobs were shed and the unemployment rate jumped to 5.2%.

"I know I'm on the high side," he said. "But the jobless-claims data tell me a lot more workers got laid off early in the month than people realized." Mr. Naroff said business closures and layoffs in hard-hit areas such as New York City occurred early enough to get counted in this report.

Like many economists, he sees the March data as the tip of the iceberg. He predicts the economy could shed upward of 10 million jobs during the pandemic, and the unemployment rate will top 14%.



Document J000000020200330eg3u0003w



The Coronavirus Pandemic: Fed Now Armed With Greater Firepower --- Central bank gets lending responsibility that is typically left up to elected officials

By Nick Timiraos 
750 words
30 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The Federal Reserve quickly deployed a half-dozen emergency lending programs over the past two weesks to ensure cash keeps coursing through the U.S. financial system. Now, Congress wants it to go much further, approving $454 billion to reload the Fed's own ability to lend.

Washington is relying on the Fed, to an unprecedented degree in peacetime, to preserve business balance sheets after elected officials and private industry have put the economy into the equivalent of a medically induced coma to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.

The economic-rescue legislation President Trump signed on Friday asks the Fed to charge headlong into credit and fiscal policy, by financing businesses, states and cities. These are areas the central bank has normally regarded as matters best left to elected officials.

"Congress is the Fed's boss and Congress has mandated them to lend to areas of the economy that they were previously uncomfortable doing," said Julia Coronado, a former Fed economist and founder of economic-advisory firm MacroPolicy Perspectives.

The Fed has essentially unlimited power to lend during a crisis as long as officials consider their loans well-secured. By providing the Treasury Department with a sizable pot of money, Congress has given the central bank more flexibility to ramp up lending because the Treasury will agree to absorb initial losses.

"This is an opportunity to leverage the unlimited balance sheet of the Fed," Sen. Pat Toomey (R., Pa.) told reporters last week. "It's totally unprecedented. We're hoping that it's a mechanism to keep business alive."

The move to entrust the Fed with more responsibility marks an about-face for both Congress and Mr. Trump, who has unsparingly criticized the central bank and the man he picked to lead it, Jerome Powell. Ten years ago, Congress curbed the very emergency-lending authorities lawmakers are now asking the Fed to use, after popular outrage over how the central bank exercised those powers following the failures of Bear Stearns and American International Group Inc.

The Fed's longstanding reluctance to coordinate with fiscal policy dates to an accord with the Treasury Department in 1951. It was reached after the Fed overrode the Truman administration's demands to maintain pegs that had fixed yields on Treasury securities to support the economy during and after World War II.

"There is a long history of coordination between the Fed, the administration, and Congress ending in a bad place," said Claudia Sahm, a former Fed economist now at the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, a liberal think tank."That shows how severe the situation is."

By outsourcing more of the crisis response to the Fed, lawmakers are signaling both a vote of confidence in the central bank while potentially shielding themselves from blame for difficult decisions that lie ahead, saidMark Spindel, a Washington-based investment manager who co-wrote a book on the Fed's historical relationship with the White House and Congress.

"To Jay's credit, he has worked extensively to forge that connective tissue with Congress, so the individual and the institution are seen as objective; in the best sense, technocratic; and independent of the hyper-partisanship" in Washington, said Mr. Spindel.

The Fed's initial response borrowed from the programs developed by former Chairman Ben Bernanke, who during the 2008 financial crisis broke the seal on lending authorities the Fed hadn't employed since Great Depression.

The Fed can't lend directly to companies but, with the approval of the Treasury secretary, it can create special facilities that extend credit. The Treasury has kicked in $10 billion for each of five facilities, including two that will support markets for large firms' debt.

The new Treasury infusions are likely to support another facility the Fed has said it would create to lend to potentially thousands of midsize businesses, likely through the banks that can borrow directly from the Fed -- a massive operational enterprise unlike anything the central bank has done.

The central bank is also looking into ways to prevent higher borrowing costs from exacerbating strains for state and local treasuries.

As these facilities are launched, officials are likely to face tricky questions about how much further to intervene in credit markets, especially now that they will have more funds available to take losses. Existing facilities have limited lending to the highest-rated borrowers.

Document J000000020200330eg3u00096





State Street: Critics Complain State Budget Is Being Crafted in Secrecy

By Jimmy Vielkind 
646 words
30 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A12A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Advocacy groups of all stripes are concerned they have been shut out of the state budget negotiations set to conclude this week, a deal one longtime watchdog said is taking shape in "unprecedented secrecy."

The state Capitol in March normally teems with lobbyists, citizens and officials from around the state pushing to be heard as the budget comes together. State legislators' days are scheduled to the minute, and people seeking their attention can be lucky to get in a few moments during a chance encounter near the floor of the chamber.

All that ceased when the building closed to visitors on March 15 as the coronavirus spread. Legislators voted on a handful of bills on March 18, but remain scattered around the state. The traditional avenues of influence adapted by necessity.

On Friday, Citizen Action of New York, a progressive advocacy group, held a "car rally" where people honked on the street outside the Capitol to protest any changes to the state's new bail law, which eliminated cash bail for most misdemeanor and nonviolent felony offenses.

For most of January and February, the group held weekly rallies inside the building, arguing that the law -- which took effect Jan. 1 -- has reduced economic and racial disparities in the criminal justice system.

Law-enforcement officials as well as elected leaders in both parties, including New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, believe the bail law should be amended to let judges consider public safety when deciding whether to hold defendants before their trials.

"To roll back the bail law now or down the line is to set up for devastation in the face of this pandemic," because it is difficult to contain the virus in jails, said Erin George, the civil rights campaign director for Citizen Action.

The Alliance for Quality Education, which advocates for greater school funding, held a virtual news conference on Friday to urge legislators to raise taxes on the wealthy rather than cut services.

Brian Sampson, president of the Associated Builders and Contractors, Empire State Chapter, said the contractors he represents had to fall back on letter-writing and social-media campaigns to lobby lawmakers. Contractors are battling against building-trade unions over a provision that would broaden the definition of public works that require a higher, prevailing wage rate.

"It's obviously been very difficult. You're relying on phone calls, text messages and emails, and you're hoping your message is being heard," Mr. Sampson said.

Leaders of the state Senate and Assembly, both of which are controlled by Democrats, didn't release their own draft budgets to counter the $178 billion spending plan Gov. Andrew Cuomo unveiled in January.

Instead, the Democratic governor has been talking directly with Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie and Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins. This practice of three people in a room is common in Albany, but without rank-and-file lawmakers close by, regular briefings have been relegated to conference calls.

"Albany in the best of times is secretive," said Blair Horner, a longtime leader of the New York Public Interest Research Group, a watchdog organization. "We're now entering a black hole of information where even light can't escape. It's as dark as dark can be. Unless you're hiring the hot-wired lobbyists, it's hard to find out what's going on."

Mr. Cuomo has appeared regularly in the Capitol to offer updates on the state's response to the coronavirus outbreak, and he has fielded some budget questions. The coronavirus has had big impacts on the state economy and decreased revenue projections by around 15%.

"This is the easiest budget we've done," Mr. Cuomo joked to a legislator recently and recounted during a public radio interview. "We have no money."

---

jimmy.vielkind@wsj.com

Document J000000020200330eg3u0008x





U.S. News: Electric Vehicles Dinged by State Fees

By Scott Calvert 
569 words
30 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

More states are imposing special registration fees on electric vehicles, sparking complaints that the levies undermine efforts to get consumers to embrace alternative-fuel cars.

Twenty-eight states charge from $50 to more than $200 a year for plug-in electric cars, and 14 states have annual fees for plug-in hybrids that also use gasoline, according to the nonpartisan National Conference of State Legislatures.

The fees are meant to make up for the fact that electric-vehicle owners don't buy gas and thus don't pay gas taxes that states rely on for road work. The fees are generally in addition to standard vehicle registration fees.

"There was practically no fee in place just a few years ago, and we've seen this massive growth," said Kristy Hartman, NCSL's energy program director.

In 2019, plug-in vehicles made up just 2% of U.S. sales, or about 330,000 cars and trucks out of about 17 million overall. But officials are preparing for a future when a far higher share of drivers won't be fueling up at the pump, Ms. Hartman said.

To promote electric-vehicle purchases, a majority of states offer hefty tax incentives and other perks.

Some states offer incentives and impose fees, which sends conflicting signals to consumers, said Genevieve Cullen, president of the Electric Drive Transportation Association, which includes auto makers, suppliers and other industry players. Tesla Inc., General Motors Co. and Nissan Motor Co. are members.

"Often those fees are in effect penalizing efficiency and innovation," Ms. Cullen said.

A Consumer Reports analysis last year found 11 states charge electric-vehicle owners more than what a typical driver of a new gas-powered car pays in gas taxes. Among them is Georgia, which has the nation's highest fee at $213, according to NCSL.

Atlanta resident Christopher Matos-Rogers and his husband both drive Teslas. Mr. Matos-Rogers, 35 years old, said they can afford the fees but he thinks $75 to $100 a year would be a fair amount.

"It's very punitive, and it's exorbitant compared to a similar gas car," he said.

Ms. Hartman, who lives in Colorado, said when she bought an electric Nissan Leaf last year, she received a $7,500 federal tax credit, a $5,000 state tax credit and a $3,500 rebate from an electric utility. She also paid a $50 recurring state registration fee.

States with fees span the political spectrum and include California, which has by far the most electric vehicles and offers incentives including a rebate of up to $7,000. It began charging a $100 fee for purchases of 2020 model-year cars.

Jonathan Williams, chief economist for the American Legislative Exchange Council, which advocates for free markets, said the fees are appropriate. "Let's make sure everybody who uses the roads pays something toward keeping them up," he said.

Gas taxes are states' largest revenue source for fixing and maintaining roads and bridges. The relative value of gas taxes has fallen due to factors like improved fuel efficiency and the federal government's shifting more infrastructure costs to states, according to a recent National Governors Association report.

The report said an annual flat fee on electric vehicles can disproportionately affect low-income drivers and that "exceptionally high" fees risk slowing adoption of the technology.

Document J000000020200330eg3u0003u





Streetwise: There'll Be Debt to Pay After Crisis

By James Mackintosh 
927 words
30 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B9
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Moral hazard is dead. Central banks have printed record amounts of money to save financiers and allow indebted governments to keep spending. Inflation is inevitable.

If all that sounds familiar, it's because those were the views of buyers of gold and other inflation protection in 2009. They were wrong then, but they're at it again -- and this time they might be right.

Consider Ruffer, a bearish British investment house. It has been warning for a long time that the monetary regime that has held for decades was coming to an end, and thinks the coronavirus crisis means its time finally has come. "Inflation and deflation are not opposites," says Alex Lennard, investment director at Ruffer. "You can emerge from quite deflationary environments into very rapid inflation."

Ruffer's investors have made money this year in crashing markets thanks to its extensive use of options to protect against stock-price falls. They did well in the 2008 crisis, too. But their long-run bet is that the overhang of debt from the current shutdown will prevent central banks raising rates to combat consumer price rises, meaning inflation running in the mid-to-high single digits.

Mr. Lennard says Ruffer last week bought 30-year inflation-linked Treasurys when they declined in price, adding to a longstanding position in 50-year U.K. inflation-linked gilts and gold.

This crisis is different in many ways the previous one, but the argument about inflation is the same. Will governments choose austerity and higher taxes to pay off the heavy debt incurred fighting the crisis? This route doesn't lead to inflation, but it's politically difficult. Instead, Ruffer expects governments to take the easy option and rely on central banks, perhaps even by directly financing government spending, a recipe for inflation throughout history. Such "helicopter money" is widely thought to be a possibility for the Federal Reserve, which has already reduced interest rates to zero.

Still, in 2008, Ruffer was wrong that deflation would be followed by inflation. It's possible that governments might once again muddle through, relying on the deflationary forces unleashed by the internet and globalization to keep prices from rising -- but it will be harder this time.

Jean-Claude Trichet, former president of the European Central Bank, says the most-optimistic debt scenario is that inflation rises only back to the 2% target, but rates stay well below that for a very long time. That would help to reduce the value of government debt in inflation-adjusted terms, with holders of the bonds suffering.

"Other scenarios would be much more dramatic, including either a sequence of defaults or hyperinflation triggered by very loose fiscal and monetary policies," he told me. "The best-case scenario relies upon great soundness of fiscal policies, great effectiveness of structural policies anda combination of monetary policy and of micro- and macro-prudentials (regulatory policy) of extreme efficiency."

He added: "Its likelihood will be in the hands of our future masters. As regards fiscal policies, what was observed since the [2008] global financial crisis does not bode well for the necessary future soundness."

The lesson of history is that it could go either way. The result in the U.S. after 2008 was more akin to what happened in Japan after its housing and stock-market bubbles burst in 1990: Inflation never took off despite easy money and huge government deficits, but growth continued.

Stephen King, senior economic adviser to HSBC, points to the repayment of debt after the world wars as an example of the different options ahead. After World War II, rapid economic growth and a regime of deliberately low interest rates that allowed governments to borrow cheaply -- financial repression -- helped reduce the burden of debt. By contrast, after World War I, several large debtor countries reduced debt through default or hyperinflation. The U.K.'s fierce austerity as it insisted on a strong pound hurt the economy and failed to deal with the debt burden.

"It's quite possible that, in the aftermath of all this, there will be attempts to claw back money from holders of capital," Mr. King says. One option is the wealth taxes advocated by some Democrats, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren.

But it is politically easier to deal with debt with the help of the central bank. Financial repression can be used to keep interest rates below the inflation rate, reducing the value of government debt in real terms but costing savers and bondholders -- and risking higher inflation. The Fed tried this policy after World War II, capping bond yields for six years and being subservient to the Treasury Department, before asserting its independence.

"Financial repression is a given," says Frederik Ducrozet, a senior economist at Pictet Wealth Management and close observer of the ECB. Most countries will be able to cope with the additional debt without extreme measures, he thinks, although Italy may struggle without pan-European debt sharing, a version of which has already been proposed by French President Emmanuel Macron.

For investors, the short-term swings in markets have been so extreme that it's hard to think beyond a few days, let alone the years over which the postcrisis debt resolution will play out. But it's worth considering now, because the portfolio needed to cope with central banks either letting inflation rip or imposing financial repression would be quite different to one designed to profit from a return to what has counted as normal since 2009.



Document J000000020200330eg3u0008u



Life & Arts -- Television Review: Addictive Entertainment

By John Anderson 
704 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A13
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

How to Fix a Drug Scandal

Wednesday, Netflix

The original "Law & Order" used to boast that its stories were ripped from the headlines. The engrossing "How to Fix a Drug Scandal" might have been ripped from "Law & Order'" -- if the new four-part series weren't a thrilling piece of nonfiction. It has the same crime-and-punishment arc as the old show, the same gift for animating legal minutiae, the same relentless forward motion. Plus, everything in it is true. And there are monsters.

Monsters can be good or bad; the word itself is almost as ambiguous as "fix" -- something that suddenly meant different things to different people in 2012 Massachusetts, as a two-headed scandal started to boil over between crime labs in the commonwealth. In Amherst, a chemist named Sonja Farak was found to have been habitually dipping into the evidence (which included methamphetamine, cocaine and LSD). In Boston, another drug-tester named Annie Dookhan, the kind of employee who turned the lights on in the morning and off at night, had been producing test results at a rate no one thought was possible -- and wasn't, as the authorities rather belatedly discovered.

"How to Fix a Drug Scandal" is full of surprises, one of them being how seamlessly director Erin Lee Carr ("At the Heart of Gold: Inside the USA Gymnastics Scandal") melds two cases of such contrasting characters, circumstances and motivations. Ms. Farak, who had been her high-school class valedictorian as well as a member of the boys' varsity football team, kept to herself and her drugs, carefully consuming either the pure samples kept in the lab or the evidence that came through it. Ms. Dookhan, as indicated by emails and testimony, was a habitual liar as well as outrageously -- and feloniously -- ambitious. Ms. Farak did the work, though it was inherently compromised. Ms. Dookhan simply didn't do the work.

What was common to the cases were two questions: How long had each woman been mishandling evidence? And, consequently, how many convictions were compromised? As the series shows, the "fix" attempted by the Massachusetts criminal justice system -- in the persons of then-Attorney General Martha Coakley and assistant AGs Anne Kaczmarek and Kris Foster -- was to spin the damage as having been short-term and, when that didn't work, to withhold evidence and mislead the courts. It isn't spelled out, but the fact that so many Massachusetts prosecutors talk so frankly to Ms. Carr's camera may be the result of the attorney general's office having misled them, too. The office received a rare castigation from the bench for its performance.

The re-creations feature an actress (Shannon O'Neill) who looks enough not like Ms. Farak to cause some puzzlement, but she makes a good point (lifted from testimony): "I never had any piece [of evidence] questioned," she says, meaning the accused had never claimed that the evidence against them hadn't been actual drugs. But Luke Ryan, the attorney for several clients whose cases had been tainted by Ms. Farak, makes the counter argument, and makes it well, that the state is both required and obliged to prove that what it is charging is true, including the authenticity of the drugs involved. The testing process must be above reproach, something Ms. Farak and Ms. Dookhan rendered impossible.

The level of misconduct is startling, as is the tenacity of Mr. Ryan, the hero of the series who keeps turning up enough proof of that misconduct that he and his fellow litigants, all of whom wanted convictions overturned, can't be ignored. What may catch a viewer off guard is how gripping the story is and how it flies by. Heather Harris, a forensic chemist who appears among Ms. Carr's interviewees as a kind of general expert witness about crime labs and chemistry, says early in the series that the public doesn't know much about the kind of work performed, or not, by Ms. Farak and Ms. Dookhan, because "it doesn't make for compelling, interesting stories."

"Then why are we here?" she's asked.

"Well," Ms. Harris answers, smiling, "sometimes it does."

Document J000000020200331eg3v0002w





U.S. News -- Capital Account: How to Avoid Another Great Recession

By Greg Ip 
883 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The U.S. economy has suffered a body blow with no modern precedent. Unemployment, just 3.5% in February, could top 10% in coming months, higher than its peak in the 2008-09 recession. Some see it surpassing 20% soon, levels unseen since the Great Depression.

But it isn't a foregone conclusion that this must wreak as much damage as the great recession, much less the Depression. It depends not just on how high unemployment goes but how long it stays there. That, in turn, depends on whether businesses and workers, with the aid of government, can stay afloat for as long as it takes to stop the pandemic.

This isn't like other recessions, in which businesses and consumers are unwilling to spend. This time they are unable to spend. It resembles a natural disaster such as a hurricane that closes an entire affected region. Businesses and employees typically treat a natural disaster as transitory and pick up afterward where they left off. The difference is that this one is shutting down most of the country, potentially for months. The longer it drags on, the more businesses will fail and the more temporary layoffs become permanent, with knock-on effects on spending and employment that become difficult to reverse.

While we don't know much about the economic effects of pandemics, we know a lot about the effects of natural disasters.

The week after Hurricane Harvey's landfall in 2017, the typical Houston business's incoming cash plummeted 63% relative to a year earlier, and 31% had no cash coming in at all. That is according to a JPMorgan Chase Institute study of thousands of anonymized accounts.

Importantly, businesses' cashout flows also significantly shrank, preserving somewhat their cash balances. And within a week, cash inflows returned to normal in both cities. A surge in temporary layoffs didn't translate into a significant or sustained drop in employment.

While the bank's in-house think tank didn't study Hurricane Katrina, that storm's severity in 2005 and the slow pace of rebuilding left lasting economic scars. Employment in the New Orleans area immediately plunged 30%. Two years later, only half that drop had been recovered, and, according to one study, a third of businesses had failed to reopen.

The priority now is to avoid New Orleans' post-Katrina fate. That requires enabling businesses, as best as possible, to hang on until the pandemic emergency is over.

Lauren Knox has owned a hair salon in Huntsville, Ala., since 1989. In 2011, she was forced to close for 10 days when tornadoes tore across the Southern U.S. She still remembers dividing up the cash the salon had on hand to help tide over her employees. It helped prepare her for the pandemic, to an extent. On March 3, she had her employees sign a plan of action, in which she said: "Like any other disruption in our lives, like a tornado, etc., we ride it out together. "A week ago, to protect their and their customers' health, she closed her salon and told her seven support staff, seven commissioned stylists, and 11 stylists who rent a salon chair from her, to stay home.

None, so far, have been laid off. Her hope is that when the pandemic passes, she can reopen and bring all those staff back. But she has just $7,000 in cash on hand and, assuming she cuts all operating expenses, still has fixed monthly expenses of rent, utilities and insurance of around $7,200.

"I did make the decision to pay my support staff two weeks out of pocket and hope this stimulus and relief will bridge that gap soon," Ms. Knox said, referring to the $2 trillion-plus relief package signed last week. "I'm up to date on all my bills for April. But I can't continue through May without some assistance."

Most workers have skills and experience that are specific to their current jobs. The longer they spend looking for a new one, the more that human capital depreciates, delivering a lasting hit to income and thus spending. Separate research by the JPMorgan Chase Institute found that those unemployed six months or more had cut spending by 13% a year after losing their jobs, compared with 1% for those unemployed under six months.

Research by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development found thatin the past, recession unemployment rose less in countries where employers thought the downturn was seen as transitory. That was especially notable in Germany, which encourages employers to reduce each worker's hours rather than cut workers altogether.

The U.S. has traditionally resisted subsidizing employers to keep workers, preferring instead to subsidize the unemployed as they search for a new job. The economic-rescue package breaks that tradition. Besides money for unemployment benefits, it includes $350 billion in forgivable Small Business Administration loans and $500 billion in direct loans and seed money for Federal Reserve credit, all conditional on minimizing layoffs. Speed is essential for the program to succeed, and that alone may not be enough. If the pandemic lasts many more months, or returns in the fall, last week's package may not be enough.



Document J000000020200331eg3v0003k



Global View
U.S. Leadership Will Survive Coronavirus

By Walter Russell Mead 
885 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A15
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

There are two epidemics raging across the U.S. today: the coronavirus and a febrile sense of national failure. Just like the so-called Flagellants, who roamed across Europe during the Black Death beating themselves with scourges and bewailing their sins, pundits and politicians now solemnly intone that a failed coronavirus response proves that American society is sick and American global leadership is dead.

Certainly the initial U.S. response was flawed. The Trump administration and local and state officials should have made much better use of the time gained by President Trump's much-criticized but now universally imitated coronavirus travel bans. The time could have been used to get the country in substantially better shape for testing and treatment, and an earlier adoption of strict social-distance protocols would have impeded the spread of the virus significantly and reduced the projected death toll.

Barring the sudden appearance of a miracle cure, the disaster will likely ripple across the country, testing medical facilities and all levels of government to -- and, in some cases, past -- their breaking points. Each piece of bad news will stimulate our modern day Flagellants to histrionic transports of passionate handwringing. Each week's New Yorker issue will be more cuttingly eloquent than the last.

It is, however, much too soon to say that America is failing a historic test. What is it being graded against? Thanks to bad strategic and operational decisions in 1941, U.S. Pacific forces were sitting ducks when war broke out. Except mercifully for its aircraft carriers, the Pacific fleet was concentrated and poorly guarded in Pearl Harbor. This was followed by a debacle in the Philippines. Caught in an indefensible position, by April 1942 more than 22,000 American military personnel were captured or surrendered, and 10,000 underwent the infamous Bataan Death March into brutal captivity.

These costly blunders were less excusable and more expensive than anything we've done wrong so far in this crisis. They made the war longer and bloodier than it would otherwise have been -- but victory came in the end. The Civil War, World War I, even the Cold War saw a similar pattern of fecklessness and confusion in the early stages.

America generally starts slowly. Our national genius is for the private economy and private pursuits. When crisis comes, it takes the U.S. more time than many countries to move to an emergency footing and coordinate the many moving parts of its society; to get the various state, local and federal authorities to mesh; and to get the private and public sectors working together effectively. The U.S. typically stumbles out of the starting gate, but once it gets going, the ingenuity, adaptability and dedication of the American people enable it to make up the lost ground.

Fears of a collapse of U.S. leadership abroad are also overblown. The only way we can really help others at this point is to put America first. If our country is paralyzed by a devastating epidemic, and our economy crashes and burns, we won't be able to help anybody with anything. America First at this moment isn't a slogan for chauvinism. It's common sense.

This isn't only true for the U.S. The best gift any country can give the world at this time is to master its own difficulties, succor its own people, and prepare to play its part in the global resurgence.

Even so, America has already done far more to fight the pandemic and its consequences than any other country. China has sent a few high-profile shipments of often-defective medical supplies, usually at top-dollar prices; the Federal Reserve opened dollar-swap lines that kept the world economy from freezing up.

Medical systems in Africa and elsewhere that were built with American aid to fight HIV and Ebola have given dozens of countries capacities they wouldn't otherwise have possessed. With both the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank arguing that it's vital to reduce debt burdens and help emerging countries deal with the massive costs of the crisis, Washington is working with Group of Seven and G-20 countries to respond to the need. One suspects this activity would get more attention if a Democrat were in the White House, but it is a more than respectable record for a country still getting to grips with a once-in-a-century event.

The true test of leadership has yet to come. America can't help the world much if it is flat on its back. But as the U.S. rises, it can help others up, too -- and it will be in America's interest to do so. Americans can't stay healthy if the pandemic continues to surge around the globe, and our economy won't prosper for long unless the world recovers with it.

The U.S. may yet fail to meet the test that history is giving it, and if it does there will be plenty of opportunity for self-flagellation and woe. But the American response to date, flawed as it is, suggests that the strengths that brought the U.S. through even worse crises in the past have not yet faded away.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000a





Lawmakers Clash Over Medicaid in Budget

By Jimmy Vielkind 
707 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10A
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Lawmakers and unions criticized Gov. Andrew Cuomo for pushing ahead with a plan to reduce Medicaid spending as part of the state budget due Tuesday even as New York responds to the novel coronavirus pandemic.

Several Democrats who control the state Senate, as well as labor and progressive groups, warned that cuts to the program, which provides health care to more than 6 million New Yorkers, would be devastating. They urged Mr. Cuomo to accept federal money approved earlier this month and to tax the wealthy rather than making reductions.

"It's absolutely insulting and it's just wrong," state Sen. Julia Salazar, a Democrat from Brooklyn, said of the Medicaid changes during a recent news conference.

The cuts, she said, would hurt poor patients and hospitals on the front lines of responding to the epidemic.

The Medicaid issue emerged as a late flashpoint in the budget after the virus shut down large segments of the economy and state tax receipts cratered. The Democratic governor's budget office predicted state revenues were somewhere between $9 billion and $15 billion below the $88 billion projected in February.

"The problem with the budget is the numbers," Mr. Cuomo said Sunday. "I'm not going to pass or sign a phony budget."

The governor said he didn't support raising taxes. He proposed a $178 billion spending plan in January, but has acknowledged in recent days that circumstances have changed to the point that it is basically moot. A planned 3% increase in the amount of state aid to public schools is now in doubt, he said.

However, Mr. Cuomo said he was forging ahead with a plan to reduce spending in the state's Medicaid program by $2.5 billion.

The state approached its new fiscal year with a $6.1 billion deficit, largely driven by Medicaid cost overruns. The governor filled the gap mostly by assuming higher revenues, as well as $2.5 billion in savings from a so-called Medicaid Redesign Team of industry stakeholders.

The team's recommendations include decreasing the reimbursement rates the state pays for hospitals and nursing homes and changes designed to slow the growth of a long-term-care program in which sick or disabled New Yorkers hire assistants to help them at home.

State officials have looked to Washington for help with the budget, but the governor said there were provisions in the second coronavirus stimulus bill approved by Congress that would block the redesign team's proposals and his plan to shift more Medicaid funding responsibility back to New York City and the state's other counties.

U.S. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said that second stimulus bill would provide up to $6 billion a year in additional Medicaid funding for New York. Mr. Cuomo blasted Mr. Schumer, a Democrat from Brooklyn, for agreeing to the provision.

Mr. Cuomo and his budget director, Robert Mujica, said they believe the federal aid might be closer to $4 billion and that they would rather push ahead with the redesign team's recommendations.

"It takes waste and fraud and inefficiency out of the system," Mr. Cuomo said. "I have no choice. Two-and-a-half billion per year recurring is worth more than $6 billion one shot."

New York Senate Majority Leader Andrea Stewart-Cousins, a Yonkers Democrat, said in a television interview last week that the redesign team's proposals were conceived before the coronavirus pandemic and should be revisited.

American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten, whose union includes members in New York, said she was surprised by Mr. Cuomo's position.

"Right now, what's more important is to keep everybody afloat. It's puzzling to me," she said.

A third federal stimulus bill included $5.1 billion of direct aid to New York to cover costs associated with the coronavirus. Mr. Cuomo again said the measure left New York shortchanged because it did nothing to alleviate the state's vanishing revenues.

Given the uncertainty, Mr. Cuomo, Ms. Stewart-Cousins and Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie, all said they are discussing budget language that would give the governor the power to unilaterally cut state spending if its receipts didn't materialize.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000f





China's Secrecy Hides Risk to Nations in Its Debt

By Brian Spegele and Anna Isaac 
1,190 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

A hidden pile of debt threatens dozens of emerging-market countries as the global economy stalls and commodity prices tumble.

An estimated $200 billion of emerging-market debt owed to China has gone unreported in official statistics in recent years. The money is upending assumptions made by yield-hungry investors who have poured roughly $2 trillion into risky emerging markets over the last decade.

Even before the market crash, some borrowers were buckling under their debts to China. Pakistan turned to the International Monetary Fund in 2018 for a bailout. Sri Lanka was forced to cede to China control of a strategically located port to shore up state finances.

U.S. and European economists are drawing parallels to the 1980s debt crisis that shattered growth in Latin America. A global recession would magnify the problem, economists and investors say.

Since the start of the year, dollar-denominated government bond prices have fallen by around 50% or more for some resource-rich countries such as Angola and Ecuador that also owe heavy debts to China. An index tracking emerging-market sovereign bond performance has fallen around 16% while more than $80 billion has flowed out of emerging-markets stocks and bonds since the market turmoil began, according to the Institute of International Finance.

China's rise as a trading and manufacturing power has been extensively studied over the past four decades, but its impact as a financial power is less understood. Exactly how much China has lent is kept under wraps by state-run banks such as China Development Bank and the countries receiving the loans. China's opaque lending can lead investors and organizations to underestimate the risk they are taking when they make loans to these countries or buy their bonds, leading them to lend at rates that might be too low given the potential losses. These include global investors and multilateral lenders such as the World Bank.

Investors "have to be very, very leery of what's going on," said Carmen Reinhart, a Harvard University economist and former IMF official who has studied China's lending practices.

Ms. Reinhart, one of the most influential U.S. economists on financial crises, was part of a team that over the past two years pieced together a data set of Chinese loans. A resulting study by Ms. Reinhart and economists Sebastian Horn and Christoph Trebesch concluded that more than $200 billion of Chinese overseas loans -- around half of all its cross-border lending -- was hidden from public view. Around a dozen of the poorest countries owed debts to China equal to 20% or more of their annual GDP, the research estimated.

"The problem gets most acute in crisis situations," said Mr. Trebesch.

Much of the growth can be traced to China's sprawling "Belt and Road" initiative, which seeks to open up new trade routes, expand overseas opportunities for Chinese firms and deepen the country's strategic influence through the financing and building of infrastructure.

Large commodity exporters that seek to sell to China are among the roughly 70 countries taking part in China's program, many of which took on Chinese debt during the boom in commodities prices, but whose finances are particularly vulnerable to plunging commodity markets today.

"The debt burden from these projects is very quickly going to become unsustainable for many, many, many countries," said Danny Russel, the State Department's top diplomat for East Asia affairs under President Obama. "This is scary stuff."

Nigeria, which is Africa's largest economy and depends heavily on oil exports, was one such recipient. Official statistics have presented China as a modest financier for Nigeria in recent years. By the end of 2017, Nigerian government statistics show external debt owed to China was under $2 billion.

In reality, the total debts Nigeria owed to China were more than double that amount, according to the research. Chinese loans have financed infrastructure such as a light-rail project for the capital city of Abuja. Last year, China committed $629 million in financing for the country's first deep-sea port. Nigeria's government is trying to borrow an additional $17 billion from the state-controlled Export-Import Bank of China.

China's lending, most of which is done in dollars, starkly contrasts with that of multinational institutions such as the World Bank. While these groups lend money at below-market rates, China tends to lend at commercial rates, at times securing loans with a country's oil or other natural resources.

Parallels to the 1980s debt crisis in Latin America -- which spurred a "lost decade" of growth for Mexico and others -- concern economists today. Just like the earlier case, a prolonged commodities boom fueled lending to resource-rich developing nations. Some economists say China's opaqueness in its lending is reminiscent of the syndicated U.S. bank loans that crippled Latin America decades ago.

"The thing about the Chinese lending is it's not transparent," said Kevin Daly, investment manager for emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Standard Investments Inc. "Countries that do borrow from the Chinese, when you meet with their officials they do offer you a figure, but they don't offer you details of the breakdown or the repayment schedule."

Southeast Asia has proven a particular focus for Belt and Road projects. Malaysian debts owed to China are estimated to have surged from less than a billion dollars when the initiative launched to more than $12 billion at the end of 2017. In Indonesia, a $4.5 billion loan agreement with China Development Bank is helping the country to push ahead with its first high-speed rail project.

An economic crisis in Pakistan exemplified the risks.As a showcase of the Belt and Road program, China planned a $62 billion building spree across Pakistan, with China-backed ports, railways and other infrastructure to boost growth.

But Pakistani officials now say they hadn't properly assessed Pakistan's fiscal outlook when accepting Chinese loans and projects, which required the use of Chinese contractors in exchange for financing. Chinese-financed power plants, for instance, placed onerous financial obligations on the government, and contributed to a debt crunch that forced Pakistan to seek a bailout from the IMF. Islamabad denies that its debt problem is related to China.

China's government has denied engaging in what critics call "debt-trap diplomacy." State-run lenders China Development Bank and the Export-Import Bank of China didn't respond to a request for comment.

China's actions have garnered deeper scrutiny among U.S. officials, with the Trump administration nominating a critic of China's foreign lending practices to lead the World Bank. David Malpass has used the position as the institution's president to continue pushing China for more transparency.

U.S. criticism comes against the backdrop of an intensifying rivalry between the world's two biggest economies, which the coronavirus crisis has inflamed. A specific concern, U.S. officials say, is that China uses indebtedness of weaker neighbors to gain leverage over them and pursue strategic aims.



Document J000000020200331eg3v0003c



World News: Saudis Invite Houthi Rebels, Yemen Government for Talks

By Warren P. Strobel 
615 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- Saudi Arabia is in daily talks with Iran-aligned Houthi insurgents in Yemen and has invited Houthi representatives and the internationally recognized government in Yemen to peace talks in the kingdom, a senior Saudi official said.

Saudi's ambassador to Yemen, Mohammed al-Jaber, said the proposal for talks to end the five-year war, which has killed more than 100,000 people, remains on the table despite a flare-up in violence over the weekend. The Houthis haven't yet responded to the offer, he said.

Saudi authorities on Saturday said they shot down ballistic missiles fired by the Houthis at its capital Riyadh and another city on the Saudi border with Yemen. A Saudi-led military coalition on Monday responded with airstrikes in San'a, the first such strikes in Yemen's capital in months.

Mr. Jaber said Saudi officials spoke with their Houthi counterparts on Monday to emphasize that the San'a strikes were in response to Saturday's missile attacks and not intended as a re-escalation of the conflict.

"We are committed to our de-escalation," Mr. Jaber said. "We are ready to have a cease-fire in all Yemeni territory if they accept it." Houthi representatives couldn't immediately be reached for comment.

The oil-rich kingdom is seen as increasingly eager to extricate itself militarily from Yemen, where it intervened five years ago after the Houthis seized San'a and ousted the internationally recognized government.

The Saudi intervention in Yemen has drawn criticism from U.S. lawmakers of both parties and others. The United Nations calls Yemen, plagued by famine and cholera, the world's worst humanitarian crisis.

"The standing invitation to the Houthis to meet face to face for talks after provocative attacks this weekend suggests the Saudis desperately want to end the war in Yemen," said Elana DeLozier, a Yemen expert at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. "Despite recent territorial gains by the Houthis, the Saudis have stood by their direct channel with the rebel group."

Efforts to end the conflict have been halting. The warring parties reached an interim peace agreement in December 2018. While that deal halted what the U.N. feared would be a catastrophic battle for the port of Hodeidah, it was never formally implemented and hoped-for talks on a broader settlement of the conflict haven't happened.

Mr. Jaber, speaking by phone from Riyadh, said that before this weekend's violence, the internationally recognized, Saudi-backed Yemeni government of Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi and the Houthis had agreed to de-escalate the conflict and begin confidence-building talks.

The Saudi offer of talks in the kingdom was undertaken at the request of Martin Griffiths, the U.N. special envoy for Yemen, Mr. Jaber said.

Saudi Arabia and the U.S. have accused Iran of arming and training the Houthis. The Saudi-led coalition said in a statement that targets of its airstrikes on Monday included sites manned by experts from Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.

While Saudi officials have privately acknowledged they have held direct talks with the Houthis, Mr. Jaber went further. Since last year, he said, there have been daily telephone calls between officials of the Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis.

The diplomatic channel was opened last September, after the Houthis announced they would cease missile and drone strikes on Saudi territory, Mr. Jaber said. The Houthi announcement followed devastating attacks on Saudi oil facilities. While the Houthis claimed to have conducted those attacks, Saudi and U.S. officials say Iran was responsible.

---

Jared Malsin contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000h





The Coronavirus Pandemic: China Manufacturing Perked Up in March

By Jonathan Cheng 
254 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

BEIJING -- An official gauge of China's manufacturing activity rebounded strongly in March as work resumptions picked up. However, economists warned that business activity remains far from normal after the coronavirus outbreak.

China's official manufacturing purchasing managers index jumped to 52.0 in March from a low of 35.7 in February, the National Bureau of Statistics said Tuesday.

The result was higher than the median forecast of 51.5 by economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal and above the 50 mark that separates expansion from contraction.

A measure of nonmanufacturing PMI, also released Tuesday, showed service and construction activity similarly rebounding in March, to 52.3 from 29.6 in February.

But the data rebound is largely confined, for now, to an improvement in sentiment after two months in which the economy ground to a near-total halt as the coronavirus swept across China, forcing the government to implement strict prevention measures to prevent its spread.

China's statistics bureau cautioned that the rebound in manufacturing PMI didn't mean China's economic activity had returned to previrus levels, saying that it reflected the resumption of work after more than a month of idleness.

Other more concrete economic indicators for March -- including figures on foreign trade, industrial output, investment and consumption -- will likely show steep year-on-year declines when they are released in the coming days, some analysts predict.

---

Grace Zhu and Liyan Qi contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000p





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Households Are Set To Receive Payments

By John D. McKinnon 
270 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The government will begin sending out stimulus payments to households in the next three weeks and will distribute them automatically, with no action required for most people, officials said.

But some seniors and others who typically don't file returns will need to submit a simple tax return to receive the economic-impact payments, the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service said in an announcement.

The payments will provide $1,200 to most adults and $500 for children under age 17.

The government will create a web portal for people who haven't already provided their direct-deposit information to upload it to the IRS so they can get their money more quickly, the IRS said.

Almost any adult with a Social Security number can qualify, as long as a person isn't a dependent of someone else. Qualifying adults also get the payments for children in their household. People with little or no income will qualify, meaning money will flow to retirees and people who don't normally file tax returns.

People who filed a return for tax year 2018 or 2019 don't need to do anything else to receive the funds. But those who don't usually have to file returns will need to file to receive the payments, the IRS said. The IRS said its website will soon provide information at IRS.gov/coronavirus instructing people in these groups on how to file a 2019 tax return with simple information including their filing status, number of dependents and direct-deposit bank account information.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000t





UAW Leader Faces Possible Ouster Over Harassment Claims

By Nora Naughton 
408 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The executive board for the United Auto Workers began a process Monday to remove one of its own members following an internal investigation into allegations he sexually harassed subordinates.

The UAW's governing body filed charges against board member Richard Rankin through the union's formal grievance process, saying the investigation had substantiated allegations of workplace harassment.

The investigation centered on sexual-harassment allegations, according to a person familiar with the matter, and was reported by The Wall Street Journal earlier this month.

Monday's charges, which prompt an internal jury trial at the union, are the first step in removing an elected officer at the union. The board later voted to suspend Mr. Rankin, a UAW spokesman said. The UAW's governing body will oversee his Ohio region until the matter is resolved.

Mr. Rankin denied allegations of workplace harassment in a statement provided by his lawyer. "I look forward to clearing my name and expect to be fully vindicated," Mr. Rankin said. He previously said he was cooperating with the investigation.

Mr. Rankin is the latest UAW leader to face expulsion. Representing some 400,000 workers as one of the nation's most prominent unions, the union also is grappling with a yearslong federal investigation into corruption that prosecutors have said could result in federal oversight of the labor union.

The UAW has said it is executing reform efforts and has condemned former leaders charged in the investigation.

An independent lawyer hired earlier this year by the UAW had been probing harassment allegations against Mr. Rankin by two current female UAW staffers, according to people familiar with the inquiry.

Mr. Rankin, who heads the union's most populous region and by extension holds a powerful position on the UAW's governing board, was alleged to have repeatedly made sexually charged remarks that in one instance escalated to a physical threat, the people said.

The UAW was separately reviewing a formal grievance from a group of UAW-represented nurses involving Mr. Rankin that also contains allegations of sexual harassment, people familiar with that complaint say.

The union brought in an attorney from the Washington-based law firm Bredhoff & Kaiser, PLLC in January to conduct an independent investigation into the women's claims, the people said. The UAW's executive board received the report on Friday, according to the UAW statement.

---

Ben Foldy contributed to this article.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0001e





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Scammers Try to Cash In on Virus Panic

By Sadie Gurman 
624 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A6
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Danita Sienknecht was on a car ride with her husband one recent morning when a stranger called her with an outlandish offer. If she wired him $4,000 overnight, someone would show up at her door the next morning with two doses of a coveted coronavirus vaccine she knew doesn't exist.

The caller, who knew her name, said he was at a Holiday Inn not far from her southwest Missouri home and told the 84-year-old to send the money right away. He called her 29 more times when she refused to call back.

"I knew I had to report it," Ms. Sienknecht said.

Authorities are being flooded with complaints as scammers try to cash in on the nation's panic over the coronavirus by peddling fake cures, soliciting donations to phony charities and selling needed items like masks, hand sanitizer and toilet paper at jacked-up prices.

The Federal Trade Commission said on Monday it had received at least 7,283 complaints of coronavirus-related scams in the first three months of the year, with $4.6 million in reported losses.

"I don't think I have ever been as busy as I have been since early February," said Colleen Tressler, a consumer education specialist with the FTC, who has been urging people to pause and consider offers of help or promises of treatment before opening their wallets or clicking unusual links.

The agency, whose mission is to protect people from fraud and deception, so far has sent warning letters to at least seven businesses that authorities said were hawking products that falsely claim to treat coronavirus, such as teas, essential oils and colloidal silver.

A Brooklyn, N.Y., man, Baruch Feldheim, was arrested Monday for allegedly coughing on FBI agents while claiming to have coronavirus as they were investigating his stockpiling and sale of surgical masks, N95 respirators and medical gowns, prosecutors said. They said he sold the items to doctors and nurses, sometimes at a 700% markup. It couldn't be determined if Mr. Feldheim, 43, had a lawyer.

Elsewhere, FBI agents on Monday arrested Erik Santos, 49, in Georgia after he allegedly solicited and received kickbacks from testing companies in exchange for referring people for Covid-19 tests they apparently didn't need and that Medicare would pay for. His lawyer couldn't be reached for comment.

In Michigan, where the state's attorney general has a team of special agents to field price-gouging complaints, authorities said a pair of businesses marketed a patch that they falsely claimed would provide immunity from the virus.

New York's attorney general warned of scammers seeking consumers' bank information by claiming to be able to provide early access to federal stimulus payments -- before President Trump had signed the $2 trillion economic relief plan.

In Southern California, federal prosecutors said actor Keith Middlebrook, 53, told his millions of Instagram followers he had developed a coronavirus prevention pill and injectable cure before he was arrested last week while delivering the bogus drug to an undercover FBI agent.

Court records don't list an attorney for Mr. Middlebrook, who couldn't be reached.

"Scammers are just opportunistic people," Ms. Tressler of the FTC said. "They are going to cast as wide of a net as possible and see who gets caught."

AARP has received reports of a range of scams, including people receiving text messages falsely claiming to be from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services asking them to click a link to take a "coronavirus preparedness test" that instead downloads malware onto their devices, said Kathy Stokes, the organization's director of fraud prevention programs.

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000x





The Coronavirus Pandemic: An Early Van Gogh Painting Is Stolen From Dutch Museum

By Laurence Norman and Kelly Crow 
381 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A10
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

In a brash overnight robbery, thieves stole a painting by Vincent Van Gogh from a Dutch museum that has been closed for the novel coronavirus lockdown, police said.

The painting, "Parish Garden in Nuenen, Spring," was snatched at 3:15 a.m. Monday after burglars smashed a glass door at the Singer Laren Museum in the town of Laren, 18 miles southeast of Amsterdam. It was the only artwork stolen.

Police, alerted by an alarm, arrived to search the area but found no trace of the burglars. A Dutch police spokeswoman said authorities were seeking the help of local residents whose video cameras may have recorded the burglars.

It is unclear whether the pandemic played any direct role in security staffing levels at the Singer Laren.

The 1884 painting, which was on loan from the Dutch Groninger Museum since January, was one of several that Van Gogh madein Nuenen,where he went to live with his parents in the mid-1880s.The oil-on-wooden-panels painting is of the garden at the parsonage where his father served as pastor.

The painting's value isn't known, a spokeswoman for the Groninger museum said.

The general director of the Singer Laren Museum, Evert van Os, said the museum's security system operated entirely according to protocol.

"This protocol, which we have already been following for years, is well-coordinated with our insurance experts," he said. "Of course, we can learn something from this."

Monday's theft wasn't the first from the museum, whose collection contains art from the1850-1950period, including seven sculptures by France's Auguste Rodin. In 2007, an original of Rodin's statue "The Thinker" was among seven bronze items stolen from the museum's sculpture garden. It was recovered two days later, badly damaged.

"Parish Garden in Nuenen, Spring" was stolen on what would have been Van Gogh's 167th birthday.

The painting's earthen palette and realistic style are characteristic of the artist's early work.

Today, these early works aren't as prized by the marketplace as his later, signature works that feature his boldly colorful, roiling brush strokes, such as his 1889 icon, "Starry Night."

Document J000000020200331eg3v0000z





The Fed Takes Uncharted Course to Stem Virus Damage --- Jay Powell has moved the Fed faster and farther than ever, transforming its role

By Nick Timiraos 
2,002 words
31 March 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- To meet the dislocation the coronavirus pandemic unleashed on the economy, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell has mobilized the central bank to move faster and farther than ever before.

In the short weeks since financial markets seized up, Mr. Powell has placed the Fed on wartime footing. He took up the central bank's playbook from the 2008 financial crisis and then some -- cutting rates to near zero, purchasing huge quantities of government debt and, breaking a taboo, lending to American businesses.

The pace left no time for the deliberative policy process the Fed prefers. Officials can spend weeks tweaking a few words in a heavily parsed statement. This time, the team saw the need for immediate action.

When Fed officials met Sunday morning, March 15, infections were rising along the East Coast. Mr. Powell and his colleagues left empty seats in between them at the central bank's oval boardroom table, made of Honduran mahogany and granite. Two screens suspended from the two-story boardroom ceiling showed 12 reserve bank presidents and others who dialed in remotely.

They made decisions in four hours that would usually take two days.

"We learned our lesson. Moving early and aggressively is really important," said Patrick Harker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. "We needed to get the markets functioning."

It's another transformation of the Fed's traditional role in American finance, as banks' lender of last resort, in a time of crisis. Congress has encouraged the Fed, working with the Treasury Department, to invent new ways to stem the damage, pushing the Fed into policy choices it has long preferred that elected officials decide.

Mr. Powell and his colleagues have rolled out new programs at all hours of the day to keep markets functioning and otherwise-solvent businesses afloat. They are preparing to facilitate lower-cost lending for cities and states. Adding to the challenge, they have done much of this from their homes, as a health precaution, instead of from a Fed war room.

The current situation has no precedent in postwar America. Economic activity has been deliberately halted, the equivalent of a medically induced coma, to slow the virus. That means the Fed, rather than trying to kick-start growth, is instead focused on preventing credit from drying up to preserve the economy's capacity to produce once activity resumes.

The big challenge for the Fed is that so much about the economy's future remains out of its control. If the virus overwhelms the Fed's power to preserve businesses' access to money, the result could be defaults and bankruptcies that turn a severe, synchronized global recession into a full-bore depression.

The Fed's actions appear to have helped core pillars of the financial market to function for now. The danger is that new programs, even those launched very quickly, won't be ready in time to help revenue-starved businesses already burning through cash. Designing new programs also raises fundamental questions about which firms should get help and on what terms.

Many economists now expect the U.S. economy to experience a severe recession. Goldman Sachs economists see it contracting at an annualized rate of 24% during the April-to-June quarter. Morgan Stanley sees the unemployment rate rising to 12.8% this spring -- the highest on records that date to 1948.

The economic outlook is more dire than after the 2008 financial crisis, making it easier for Mr. Powell to cast aside the nagging concerns that his predecessors faced as the housing bubble burst.

Back then, officials were reluctant to cut rates as quickly because they weren't sure how bad the housing bust might get. Some were concerned that untested tools to purchase government debt might fuel excessive inflation. Others worried about the effect near-zero rates would have on markets.

Now, Fed officials have lent freely and purchased enormous amounts of debt, likely swelling its balance sheet to $6 trillion this week from $4.2 trillion in late February.

Officials unveiled six new lending facilities, lending not only to banks, but also to businesses. As part of its rescue package, Congress kicked in $454 billion so that the Fed can take on more risky lending, with programs expected to support trillions of dollars of borrowing.

With credit markets beginning to rally last week, Mr. Powell fielded a phone call from President Trump, who earlier in the month had disparaged the Fed as "pathetic," the latest in a yearlong string of insults over his desire for lower rates, even when the economy was on a stronger footing.

"I said, 'Jerome, good job. You really did it,'" Mr. Trump recounted later to reporters. "I was proud of him. That took courage."

Mr. Powell, who goes by Jay, said little in response.

People who work with Mr. Powell, a 67-year-old lawyer who isn't an economist, say he has carried a calm demeanor throughout. That, they say, reflects his comfort with the team inside the central bank, the relationships he has cultivated across Washington and his experience studying the economy and financial markets during a career in private equity and a stint in the Treasury Department during George H.W. Bush's presidency.

From his home office in the Maryland suburbs, Mr. Powell fields early-morning calls with central-bank counterparts abroad and late-night consultations with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. He relies on a specially configured laptop to access his Bloomberg data terminal, Wall Street's ubiquitous trading-desk tool.

Mr. Powell has made clear that even with interest rates at zero, the Fed's firepower is limitless. "When it comes to lending, we are not going to run out of ammunition," he said Thursday in an interview on NBC's "Today" show.

Just as Ben Bernanke, a leading scholar of the Great Depression, was praised by economists and his peers in government for being the right person to lead the Fed during the 2008 crisis, current and former colleagues say Mr. Powell is proving more decisive than more academic-minded colleagues in a job that is becoming more political.

His feel for markets "is more second nature, and that gives him a greater level of confidence," said William Dudley, a former president of the New York Fed who served alongside Mr. Powell for six years. "If you're not as confident you tend to want to get more evidence before you move. He's responding very aggressively, and that's appropriate."

When Mr. Powell traveled to Riyadh for a Feb. 22 summit of Group of 20 ministers and central bankers, the virus was tearing through Italy, Iran and South Korea, and markets had started to turn from record highs. Mr. Powell began emailing staff back in Washington that their policy plans would need to change.

U.S. school closures and travel restrictions that would crimp the economy, until then a far-off hypothetical, were quickly becoming a reasonable base case.

By the end of that week, with markets down more than 14% from their highs of one week earlier, Mr. Powell issued a rare statement under his name signaling rate cuts were likely. Fed officials met March 2 to agree to the first emergency rate cut in 12 years.

By March 11, the uncertainty about economic disruptions panicked markets. Financial institutions began selling U.S. government securities, typically considered a haven, to raise cash after markets for corporate debt, mortgage-backed securities and other assets began seizing up.

Mr. Powell concluded the Fed couldn't wait until its regularly scheduled interest-rate policy meeting the following week to act. Fed officials decided to move up the policy meeting by two days to March 15. In between, the Fed accelerated previously planned purchases of Treasury securities in a bid to prevent strains from worsening.

A key ally, Richard Clarida, a monetary economist who became vice chairman in 2018 after serving as a longtime adviser to bond giant Pacific Investment Management Co., dialed in from the New York Fed's lower Manhattan headquarters after driving from his home in Connecticut.

That day, Fed officials received a briefing from Lorie Logan, the manager of the Fed's portfolio.

Ms. Logan ran through the range of distress: market volatility at highs, short-term funding markets seizing up, businesses unable to borrow in debt markets, Wall Street dealers flooded with transactions, hedge funds unwinding bond trades that became unprofitable when volatility soared.

Particularly troubling was a widening gap between the higher prices for Treasury securities that were issued more recently than so-called off-the-run securities issued previously. The Treasury market sits at the foundation of the financial market, providing a backbone for everything from hedging trades to conducting monetary policy, and certain types of deteriorating trading conditions in this normally robust market signaled much bigger cracks forming.

Officials agreed to what were once considered last-resort measures -- the cut in the benchmark rate to near zero and open-ended purchases of Treasury and mortgage securities to bolster confidence and unclog markets. They also encouraged banks to tap the so-called discount window for emergency loans by reducing the rate on those loans to 0.25%, a record low, and by extending terms to 90 days.

The Fed announced its actions at 5 p.m. eastern, before Asian markets opened. But they tumbled. The selloffs moved on to Europe and, when U.S. markets opened, the stress spread to other assets.

Mr. Powell then deployed the rest of Mr. Bernanke's crisis plan. Mr. Bernanke had broken the seal on a little-used but powerful provision -- section 13(3) of the Fed's charter -- that allows the Fed to lend broadly during a crisis. Mr. Powell now kept that section tabbed on his computer screen.

On March 17, the Fed unveiled a program at 10 a.m. to backstop markets for short-term corporate IOUs called commercial paper, and another at 6 p.m. to allow approved dealers of U.S. government debt to borrow against stocks and bonds.

Still, the next day, money-market funds were besieged, unable to easily sell holdings of commercial paper to meet investor demands for cash. At 11:30 p.m., the Fed and Treasury announced a program to backstop prime money-market funds. Late that same evening, the European Central Bank had announced a new debt-purchase program to alleviate rising yields on certain countries' government debt.

"Midnight announcements tell you there was an urgency to put a safety net under the system," said Torsten Slok, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities.

In the midst of that frenetic week, Mr. Powell started to work from home, as did many other Fed officials.

The financial bleeding spread to the mortgage market, forcing sales of government-backed bonds by real-estate investment trusts. Officials, who had previously said the Fed would buy at least $700 billion in government and mortgage bonds over months, now said it would purchase them within days. It is on track to have bought twice that by the end of this week.

At 8 a.m. Monday, March 23, Fed officials unveiled their latest package: open-ended bond purchases and three new lending facilities for business debt markets.

In moving so aggressively to keep the economy from being overwhelmed by the coronavirus, Mr. Powell has also transformed the Fed's role to being the lender of last resort not only to banks, but to businesses. To fend off criticism the lending favors big business, Mr. Powell is planning a new facility to help smaller firms.

The Fed's task now is to get these programs working quickly. "We are moving aggressively in our thinking in how we help Main Street," said the Philadelphia Fed's Mr. Harker. "We're all seeing it right now walking around our neighborhoods. These are challenging times."



Document J000000020200331eg3v00019



Lost at Sea in a Pandemic

By Orlando Ashford 
1,209 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A19
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

During a time when we're afraid to go out, fearful of others as possible Covid-19 carriers, how do we ensure we continue acting in ways consistent with our common human dignity?

Holland America Line is working tirelessly to find medical help and safe passage home for the 1,243 guests and 1,247 crew stranded at sea, cruising north near Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, on two of our ships, Zaandam and Rotterdam. Covid-19 broke out on Zaandam last week. Two hundred people on board have had flulike symptoms, and nine have tested positive. They are among the 9,000-plus passengers still remaining on about a dozen cruise ships world-wide. These are unfortunate souls unwittingly caught up in the fast-changing health, policy and border restrictions that have rapidly swept the globe.

The questions I keep asking myself for guests and crew on these ships are:

-- How will those needing intensive medical treatment receive it with limited shipboard medical staff, facilities and supplies?

-- Nations are reluctant to share provisions or afraid to carry critical supplies out to us. What happens when our supplies run out?

-- Can guests and crew without symptoms get home with limited flights and closed borders?

Even our guests, who come from 35 countries, are questioning: "My president or prime minister told me to get home. I'm a citizen. How can my government turn me away?"

Nations are justifiably focused on the fast-developing crisis. But they've turned their backs on thousands of people floating at sea. Are these reactions based on facts or fueled by irrational fear? What happened to compassion and helping thy neighbor?

We are dealing with a "not my problem" syndrome. The international community, consistently generous and helpful in the face of human suffering, shut itself off to Zaandam, leaving her to fend for herself.

As a result, the crew was forced to take proactive measures, rendezvousing with sister ship Rotterdam to replenish much-needed supplies and protect the health of the guests and crew who aren't ill.

We made the unprecedented decision to transfer to Rotterdam those guests we could quickly and safely move to alleviate Zaandam crew's workload immediately, and to get as many guests as possible into rooms with windows and verandas. Following Centers for Disease Control and Prevention protocols, we screened guests before transfer, and all involved wore protective face masks. To ensure everyone's well-being, we did not move guests who needed further screening or those likely to need continuing support by the medical team. Guests on both ships continue to self-isolate in their staterooms.

Reducing the guest count on Zaandam helps available staff better serve those remaining on board. No guests who have been ill or symptomatic were moved, nor were their close contacts. And no Zaandam crew moved to Rotterdam. Zaandam received additional medical supplies including Covid-19 tests, face masks for guests and personal protective equipment for crew, as well as medical staff. This will help, but patients will need to get home for additional medical care.

It's important to remember that the passengers and crew did nothing wrong. When the voyages began in early March, South and North America had few confirmed Covid-19 cases. The World Health Organization was advising against travel restrictions, and the Americas weren't affected by travel or health advisories. Travel in all forms continued to bustle across the two continents as recently as mid-March -- albeit with more personal-hygiene reminders.

That all changed within days. Local governments swiftly closed ports globally. Ships that had been cleared for docking were abruptly turned away. Officials denied repeated requests for access and assistance. The world shut itself off, leaving ships stranded at sea to make it on their own, which isn't sustainable. As Zandaam approached Florida Monday, Gov. Ron DeSantis insisted that passengers couldn't be "dumped" in the state. Eventually someone must allow these ships in.

Holland America Line began actively monitoring Covid-19 in January, working with international health authorities to step up already robust screening, prevention and control procedures to keep guests and crew safe. Then, on March 13, amid growing global health concerns, we announced a 30-day suspension of global cruise operations. On March 30 that suspension was extended an additional 30 days, canceling cruises through May 14.

For ships like Zaandam in the middle of operation -- its two-week South America voyage began in Buenos Aires March 7 -- we quickly sought approval to disembark guests for flights home. Chile announced the closure of its borders on March 16, literally while Zaandam had been sitting in Punta Arenas for two days awaiting clearance for guests to disembark for flights home. Peru closed, as did Argentina and the rest of the ports in South America. Repeated requests for humanitarian consideration were denied.

Then on March 22 -- one day after the voyage's original end date -- a few guests and crew began reporting flulike symptoms. Despite countless desperate pleas in the following days, we were forbidden to medevac critically ill patients to shore-side hospitals -- usually standard operating procedure for comprehensive care that ships aren't equipped to provide.

Already four guests have died. The causes of death haven't been confirmed, as we don't do autopsies on our ships. But I fear other lives are at risk. As of Tuesday, 83 guests and 117 crew on Zaandam have had flulike illness, including the nine who have tested positive for Covid-19. We have seen a notable and steady decline in new cases during the past 48 hours, which shows the immediate actions we took have helped contain spread.

There are also 1,167 healthy guests and 1,130 healthy crew across these two ships.

The Panamanian government graciously granted humanitarian approval allowing both ships to move through the Panama Canal, which they did the evening of March 29. Even with this progress, we still face a multiday journey before we can safely dock and disembark. And we need confirmation from a port that is willing to extend the same compassion and grace that Panama did and allow us to come in so our guests can go straight to the airport for flights home. It's tempting to speculate about the illnesses that might have been avoided or lives saved if we'd gotten the assistance we sought weeks ago.

It's easy to condemn those who are unhelpful and unwelcoming during times of need. But what if we focus instead on the type of society we strive to be, where nations share a collective responsibility to help people in peril? These travelers could have been any of our families, caught up by a fast-changing crisis nobody foresaw.

The Covid-19 pandemic is an urgent test of our common humanity. To slam the door in the face of these people betrays our deepest human values. Given the opportunity, I am hopeful that all of us will follow the lead of our Panamanian friends and help our neighbors.

---

Mr. Ashford is president of Holland America Line.

(See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Cruise Lines Should Appeal to Their Flags" -- WSJ April 8, 2020)

Document J000000020200401eg4100008





REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
Pelosi Pitches a Blue-State Bailout

504 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A18
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi held up last week's coronavirus relief bill with demands related to corporate diversity, carbon emissions and election reform. But Democrats are far from finished using the crisis to try to force through partisan priorities they couldn't pass in normal times. Mrs. Pelosi is now hinting the price for further economic relief may include expanding a regressive tax deduction for high-earners in states run by Democrats.

On Monday Mrs. Pelosi told the New York Times she wanted Congress to "retroactively undo SALT." In the 2017 tax reform, Republicans limited the state and local tax deduction to $10,000. That raised federal tax revenue mostly from high-tax parts of states like California, New York and New Jersey and helped pay for the rate cuts on corporate, small business and individual incomes. According to the Tax Foundation, the cap raised almost $33 billion in 2018 from those earning more than $1 million per year and had little impact for those earning less than $100,000.

Democrats have been trying to repeal the SALT cap since tax reform passed. They've tried lawsuits, state-level accounting gimmicks and acts of Congress. The last House bill repealing the SALT cap passed in December 2019 but didn't go anywhere in the Republican-controlled Senate. Mrs. Pelosi may be hoping that in an election-year crisis atmosphere the upper chamber would have no choice.

Blowing up the state and local tax deduction would reduce the tax base and increase pressure for higher tax rates. It would also make it easier for poorly governed states to rely on soaking their high earners through capital-gains and income taxes, because the federal deduction would ease the burden.

Both New York and California, for example, tax capital gains at the state income-tax rate on top of the federal rate. Those sources of revenue are the least stable, as both states are likely to discover this year when capital-gains revenue collapses due to the stock-market plunge.

Republican lawmakers have said there are no plans yet for a new relief bill. The $2.2 trillion bill passed last week aims to float the economy for weeks, and no one knows what the public-health situation will look like at the end of April. Yet it's possible there will be pressure for more legislation to bring the economy out of its shutdown-induced coma. If Congress wants to spur growth, then cut marginal rates, which would at least increase the incentive to work and invest.

Mrs. Pelosi's remarks underscore the potential for further political mischief and long-term damage as the government intervenes to stimulate the economy. When Democrats next complain that Republicans want to cut taxes "for the rich," remember that Mrs. Pelosi wants to cut them too -- but mainly for the progressive rich in Democratic states.

(See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: Pelosi: Fight Covid With Tax Relief for Rich" -- WSJ April 8, 2020)

Document J000000020200401eg4100062





U.S. News: Parent in College-Cheating Scandal Gets a 7-Month Prison Term

By Jennifer Levitz 
485 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

A U.S. District Court judge in Boston sentenced a Silicon Valley mother to seven months in prison Tuesday, in the latest punishment handed down to parents charged in the "Varsity Blues" college-admissions scandal.

Elizabeth Henriquez pleaded guilty last fall to paying $400,000 to get a daughter into Georgetown University as a phony tennis recruit and to have five college-entrance tests rigged for her and another daughter. The second daughter wound up at Northwestern University.

Her husband, Manuel Henriquez, the founder and now ex-chief executive of specialty finance firm Hercules Capital, has pleaded guilty to participating in the scheme and is set to be sentenced in April.

Judge Nathaniel Gorton said Ms. Henriquez's offense was a crime of "greed, hubris and flaunting of wealth," and said prison was needed not only to deter her but "anyone else who has the gall to use his or her wealth" to corrupt the college-admissions system.

Yet the judge also said he was moved by the remorse she showed and believed she would turn her life around.

Ms. Henriquez, 57, who had relinquished a career in finance to be a stay-at-home mother, choked up as she gave a statement to the judge at the unusual proceeding, which was done via videoconference due to the coronavirus pandemic. She said she failed as a mother and "on a more basic level as a human being," and that she mistakenly tried to shield her daughters from failure.

"I did not act in my children's best interest," she said, and "destroyed their lives as they knew them." She added that she should have let them find their own way, realizing that if they failed, "that failure would bring them growth."

Ms. Henriquez was the 16th parent to be sentenced in the scandal, with all but one so far getting prison time, ranging from two weeks to nine months. Six more have pleaded guilty or agreed to do so. Fourteen parents are slated for trials in October and January.

The admitted scheme mastermind, William "Rick" Singer, has pleaded guilty to four felonies.

Mr. Singer ran a nationwide scam in which he admitted to taking money from parents to rig SAT and ACT exams or pay bribes to have their children tagged as athletic recruits, all but guaranteeing the teens' admission to college.

Ms. Henriquez's lawyer asked the judge to impose probation and home detention in lieu of incarceration, citing concerns about putting her into the federal prison population during the pandemic.

The judge agreed to delay the start of her prison term until June 30 and to reconsider her request for home detention if the public-health situation has not improved by then. He also imposed a fine of $200,000 and two years of supervised release.

Document J000000020200401eg410003c





FBI Wiretap Requests Show Persistent Flaws

By Aruna Viswanatha and Dustin Volz 
960 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Secret FBI applications to monitor Americans suspected of having links to foreign intelligence or terrorism contain widespread problems, according to a Justice Department watchdog report that found errors in all the more than two-dozen files reviewed.

The report, which shows issues including sloppy record-keeping by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents, indicates the shortcomings aren't limited to those previously found in highly scrutinized requests to surveil Carter Page, a former foreign-policy adviser to President Trump's 2016 campaign. Mr. Page had long been on U.S. counterintelligence officials' radar because of his dealings with Russia, and he became of particular interest because of the probe into links between the Trump campaign and Moscow that the U.S. special counsel determined didn't amount to a criminal conspiracy.

In the report, released Tuesday, the Justice Department's inspector general said he discovered "apparent errors or inadequately supported facts" in the files meant to provide factual support for the information cited in the 25 secret applications. Those requests sought wiretapping authority from a special court under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, or FISA, a law that is the subject of pointed debate in Congress.

The report didn't look at the broader case file for the information cited in the applications, and it said investigators didn't reach any conclusions on whether the errors were material to the applications themselves or would have influenced the court's decisions to approve the applications. The report did say the pattern "undermines the FBI's ability to achieve its 'scrupulously accurate' standard for FISA applications."

It said the review had found an average of 20 issues per application, with as many as 65 issues in one, and fewer than five in another.

The findings follow a December report in which the watchdog found errors in the FBI's pursuit of a wiretap against Mr. Page, the former Trump adviser.

Applications were reviewed across eight FBI field offices that involved surveillance on Americans related to counterintelligence or counterterrorism investigations between October 2014 and September 2019, the report said.

FBI officials stressed the agency already was taking steps to improve its surveillance-application process. The "findings underscore the importance of the more than 40 corrective actions that [FBI Director Chris] Wray ordered late last year," the FBI's associate deputy director, Paul Abbate, wrote in response to the new report.

But some privacy advocates said the new findings vindicated their views that problems with FISA are systemic and far broader than the public knows due to a lack of rigorous independent oversight.

"If an application as sensitive as Page's had serious problems, it was highly likely there were going to be issues elsewhere," Jake Laperruque, senior counsel at Project on Government Oversight and a former Senate aide who worked on surveillance issues.

In particular, the review found that the FBI hadn't adhered to a set of internal standards, known as the Woods Procedures, that were adopted in 2001 to better safeguard against FISA application abuses. Those procedures -- designed to ensure the accuracy of facts represented in FISA applications -- have long been cited by the FBI to answer concerns of potential privacy abuses in the secretive surveillance system that was established more than 40 years ago.

"We do not have confidence that the FBI has executed its Woods Procedures in compliance with FBI policy," the report said.

The report, written by the office of Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz, added to concerns about whether adequate privacy safeguards are in place at the FBI to ensure FISA surveillance is carried out appropriately. Mr. Horowitz's previous report from December sparked hearings in Congress and were cited by Mr. Trump as vindication for his view that the investigation of Russian influence in his 2016 presidential campaign was motivated by animus toward him.

Jim Baker, the FBI's former general counsel who helped develop the Woods Procedures, said he read the new report with "extreme disappointment, anger and frustration" and said it may reflect a need for the Justice Department to curtail its use of FISA to obtain surveillance unless the attorney general can ensure proper protocols are being scrupulously followed.

"Clearly what Mr. Horowitz found is unacceptable, period, full stop," said Mr. Baker, director of national security and cybersecurity at the R Street Institute, a free-market think tank. "Everyone, including the attorney general, is going to need to dedicate more resources to make sure that this is done properly -- and that may mean less (FISA) coverage."

A set of intelligence tools not directly related to the FISA wiretap application process expired on March 15. Congress has failed to extend them as competing factions in both parties have either sought to preserve the status quo or open up debate on broad overhauls of FISA, a position that Mr. Trump has advocated despite the recommendations of some of his own advisers.

Lawmakers in both parties said Mr. Horowitz's new findings demonstrated widespread problems. Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the Republican chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he planned to hold a hearing soon on the report.

"Based on the inspector general's audit, the flawed Page case appears to be the tip of the iceberg," Sen. Chuck Grassley (R., Iowa) said. "Not a single application from the past five years reviewed by the inspector general was up to snuff. That's alarming and unacceptable."

Sen. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) said Congress couldn't rely on the FBI and Justice Department alone to implement changes and needed to pass additional FISA transparency and oversight measures into law "to ensure that every American's rights are protected, not just friends of the president."

Document J000000020200401eg410000k





U.S. News: Pandemic Hampers Pending Home Sales

By Nicolefriedman 
678 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Real-estate agents are rushing to help home buyers and sellers close pending house sales, as the pandemic poses unprecedented obstacles to a high-touch process traditionally done in person.

House hunting usually involves a lot of contact, from the initial tour or open house to the final inspections and appraisal. The official closing is often an in-person meeting with a notary or attorney who oversees document signings.

With the coronavirus pandemic bringing shelter-in-place orders, the real-estate industry has been compelled to find workarounds for every step of this process, often having to navigate local requirements and consumer anxiety.

Home sales are now closing in parking lots where attorneys pass documents through car windows and throw away pens after each use, said Leslie Turner, founding partner at Maison Real Estate in Charleston, S.C.

"Everything's just stopped" in terms of new business, she said. "We're just trying to get the properties that we have under contract across the finish line to close."

While some of the technology to enable remote home closings has existed for years, many real-estate companies are adopting it en masse for the first time.

"This is a business that time forgot," said Vishal Garg, chief executive of online mortgage company Better.com. "It operates literally on paper and fax."

Some state Realtor associations are recommending addenda for home-purchase contracts that extend closing dates if pending closings are delayed because of the pandemic. Buyers and sellers are also scrambling for alternatives to in-person inspections and appraisals, which are traditionally required for sales and loans to go through.

"It's been a really challenging time," said Kelli Griggs, co-founder of Navigate Realty in El Dorado Hills, Calif. "It's just been a different focus -- rescuing deals versus trying to procure them."

Pending home sales rose 2.4% in February from a month earlier, the National Association of Realtors said Monday. Pending sales usually predate closings by one or two months, the association said.

Companies that sprang up in recent years to offer remote solutions for home buyers and sellers say they are seeing unprecedented demand.

Notarize, a five-year-old company that enables documents to be notarized online, expects to process at least $100 billion in transactions on its platform this year, up from about $10 billion last year, said Chief Executive Pat Kinsel. "A lot of our partner industries are in crisis right now because they cannot complete really important transactions," he said.

More than 20 states already have laws allowing electronic notarization, and a handful of others, including New York, issued executive orders in March to permit them. A federal bill on electronic notarization was introduced in the Senate in March.

Many notaries, home inspectors and appraisers are self-employed or employed by small businesses. Most of them are still allowed to work, even under various shelter-in-place orders around the country, but many are choosing not to out of health or safety concerns, according to industry groups.

Nick Gromicko, founder of the International Association of Certified Home Inspectors, estimated three-fourths of the 30,000 home inspectors in the U.S. and Canada are unwilling to do inspections right now. "Financially, it means that it's going to hurt them," he said.

Miller Samuel Inc., a New York City appraisal and consulting firm, stopped doing interior appraisals in mid-March, said Chief Executive Jonathan Miller. More lenders are accepting "drive-by" appraisals based on exterior inspections or "desktop" appraisals based on tax records and other documents, he said.

As more companies enable remote closings, real-estate executives said the increased use of technology in the closing process could become permanent for consumers who prefer the convenience.

Darry Dykstra used electronic notarization in late March to remotely close on the sale of an investment home in Plant City, Fla. "It was pretty much a no-brainer," he said. "Even without the coronavirus, I don't see me going to the closing table anymore."

Document J000000020200401eg4100064





World News: Relatives Fear for Jailed Executives

By Ryan Dube 
719 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

CARACAS, Venezuela -- Maria Elena Cardenas thought things couldn't get any worse after her husband, an American oil executive, was locked up in a crowded Venezuelan prison on what the U.S. government says are trumped-up corruption charges.

During his many months behind bars, Ms. Cardenas's husband, Gustavo Cardenas, became frail and weak from meager food rations, she said. Her family in Houston has struggled to make ends meet after losing its only breadwinner.

Now, Ms. Cardenas and advocates for prisoners held in the regime's jails fear the new coronavirus will ripple through the densely packed Helicoide, a notorious detention center that holds political prisoners, among them Mr. Cardenas and five other oil executives arrested in November 2017. The six executives at Citgo, the U.S. refinery of state-oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA, were accused of embezzlement and money laundering tied to a proposed $4 billion financing deal that was never executed.

The men, who maintain their innocence, have yet to receive a trial.

Venezuelans are bracing for an onslaught from the coronavirus. Medical professionals here say the collapsed health system will be unable to attend to citizen needs, let alone those in prison.

"I'm extremely worried," Ms. Cardenas said from Houston. The prison, her husband has told her, doesn't give inmates regular access to running water. "How do you combat a virus without water to wash your hands and everything else? It's like a death sentence."

The Trump administration, citing the coronavirus threat, has called on President Nicolas Maduro's autocratic regime to release the six men, known as the Citgo Six. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on March 19 that the men -- five of whom are naturalized U.S. citizens and one a U.S. resident -- face "a grave health risk if they become infected" because of their weakened immune systems from their lengthy detention.

"They have already spent more than two years in jail without an ounce of evidence being brought against them," Mr. Pompeo said. "It is time to release them on humanitarian grounds."

Venezuela's Information Ministry didn't respond to requests to comment.

Human-rights advocates and infectious-disease specialists warn that an outbreak of the virus could ravage Venezuela's overcrowded prisons, affecting hundreds of political prisoners. With Venezuela on lockdown, authorities have barred relatives and lawyers from visiting inmates.

"I pray to God every night that the coronavirus doesn't reach Venezuelan prisons," said Carolina Giron, a lawyer in Caracas who directs Venezuela's Prison Observatory, which advocates the rights of inmates. "Everyone will be infected."

Some families of the U.S. oil executives hope that Caracas will free their fathers and husbands soon, pointing to Iran's recent release of an American detainee for a medical furlough on coronavirus fears.

Others worry it will be harder to win their release amid deepening tensions between Caracas and Washington, believing the men are political pawns of a Venezuelan regime that the United Nations has accused of carrying out extrajudicial killings, locking up political opponents and using scarce food for political control.

On Thursday, U.S. prosecutors charged Mr. Maduro with drug trafficking and offered a $15 million reward for his arrest. Venezuela's attorney general, Tareck William Saab, responded by opening an investigation against the U.S.-backed opposition leader, Juan Guaido, on accusations of organizing a coup. The Venezuelan opposition last year took control of Citgo with the Trump administration's help as part of a failed effort to topple Mr. Maduro.

"I'm concerned there are going to be reprisals and this will complicate the situation even more," said Jesus Loreto, the Caracas lawyer for Tomeu Vadell, one of the executives.

A spokesman for the State Department said the U.S. is "continuously pressing" the Venezuelan government to release the men.

Not too long ago, Ms. Cardenas got a phone call from her husband. In a two-minute conversation, he said the inmates were trying to keep their cells clean to avoid infection. He said he would soon be home. Ms. Cardenas isn't so hopeful. "I don't understand why there is so much evil, what's the sense of it all?" she said. "This has changed our lives forever."

Document J000000020200401eg410003g





Data Breach at Marriott Is the Third in 18 Months

By David Uberti 
375 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
B2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Marriott International Inc. is investigating a data breach that exposed up to 5.2 million customers' personal information, at least the third cyber incident for the hotel giant in the past 18 months.

The company said on its website Tuesday that some guests' names, addresses, birthdays, emails, phone numbers and loyalty reward program numbers for both the hotel chain and partner airlines could be compromised. It added that it "currently has no reason to believe" that more sensitive information like passwords, passport information or driver's license numbers were affected.

The news comes at a devastating moment for Marriott and the broader tourism industry. The Bethesda, Md., firm -- the world's largest hotel company -- has furloughed thousands of employees in response to the economic fallout from the coronavirus pandemic.

How the breach transpired is unclear. The data was accessed using login credentials of two employees of a franchised hotel in Russia, spokesman Brendan McManus said. He didn't say whether the employees are suspected of foul play or if their accounts were compromised.

"Our investigation is ongoing, and it is too premature to comment on that," Mr. McManus said.

Marriott said it noticed an unusual amount of guest data accessed through an in-house app used to track customers' check-in dates, birthday celebrations and towel preferences.

While company officials say they first noticed the uptick in activity in late February, they believe it began in mid-January.

The breach Marriott reported Tuesday is at least its third in the past 18 months. In a letter to the California attorney general in October, the hotel chain said unknown attackers gained access to at least 1,552 company employees' names, addresses and Social Security numbers through a former vendor that handled official documents such as court orders and subpoenas.

Mr. McManus declined to comment on that breach.

A year earlier, the company revealed a massive hack of the reservation database for its Starwood properties that exposed more than 300 million guests' data, including sensitive information like passport numbers, payment cards and travel details.

Marriott has since faced a class-action lawsuit over the breach, believed to be one of the largest in history.

Document J000000020200401eg410000f





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Federal Prisoners To Be Locked Down

By Sadie Gurman and Deanna Paul 
487 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

The federal Bureau of Prisons said Tuesday that it would keep thousands of inmates at facilities nationwide locked in their cells with limited exceptions for the next 14 days as officials try to stem the spread of the coronavirus after one prisoner died and more prisoners and staff tested positive for the disease.

Prison officials stopped short of calling the rare move a lockdown but said inmates would only be allowed out in small groups for things such as showers, commissary and phone calls.

The bureau will also be restricting the number of inmates being transferred between its facilities as part of the plan, which came after concerns were raised by lawmakers, corrections officers and inmates that officials weren't being aggressive enough in their response to the pandemic.

At least 28 inmates and 24 staffers throughout the federal prison system had tested positive for Covid-19 as of Tuesday morning, the bureau said. Union officials said those numbers are likely much higher, given the virus's ability to quickly spread.

The decision came amid escalating concern that inmate transfers between facilities could heighten the risk of an outbreak.

Earlier this week, prisoners were still being moved, sometimes by bus or plane, across the country.

The bureau said it would still have to shuttle some prisoners around for court cases and other legal proceedings, health reasons and to manage bedspace and overcrowding, but that it was working with the U.S. Marshal's Service to further limit such travel.

The new restrictions were rare; the last time the federal prison system was on total lockdown was after a series of riots in 1995. Prisons officials said this was different because it wasn't punitive and inmates would still have access to programs and services that are normally offered, such as mental health treatment and education.

Concerns about an outbreak escalated after the death of the first federal inmate from the coronavirus on Saturday. Patrick Jones, 49 years old, was held at a low-security facility in Oakdale, La., where at least nine inmates and eight staff had tested positive for the virus as of Tuesday, with others in isolation or hospitalized for their symptoms, according to a count from prison union leaders. At least 16 employees at the facility are awaiting test results.

"If it gets in here, it's going to spread like wildfire," said Benjamin Freedland, 37, an inmate who was being held in an area with about 120 others at a federal transfer center in Oklahoma.

He spoke by phone before the new measures were imposed. Newly arriving inmates had their temperature taken and were being placed in quarantine as part of a policy that aims to limit exposure. But Mr. Freedland said officers monitoring them continued to move about the prison and too few of them have masks.

Document J000000020200401eg410003m





The Coronavirus Pandemic: Guatemala Asks U.S. to Halt Deportations of Its Citizens

By Juan Montes, Jose de Cordoba in Mexico City and Alicia A. Caldwell in Los Angeles 
687 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

Guatemala's government has asked the U.S. to stop all deportations of Guatemalans to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the impoverished Central American country, days after local authorities reported the first case of an infected deportee, a senior Guatemalan official said.

Guatemala fears deportations from the U.S. could be a major source of infection in the country, the official said. U.S. authorities deported some 54,900 undocumented Guatemalans in fiscal year 2019, the largest number for a Central American country.

"We have asked in the kindest terms, knowing that we are friends and allies, to stop deportations during this crisis to not make things worse," the official said, adding that negotiations are continuing and the U.S. has yet to respond to the request.

A U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman said deportation flights to Central America are ongoing.

Guatemala has been in talks with the U.S. about the flights of deportees since Saturday night, said foreign ministry spokesman Joaquin Samayoa. Discussions began after a 29-year-old deportee known as patient 36 arrived in Guatemala City on a flight from Mesa, Ariz., on Thursday with another 40 deportees.

The man showed no symptoms upon arrival, but two days later he became ill and tested positive. He has been hospitalized while his fellow passengers on the flight have been self-quarantined in their homes, and are being checked by health ministry officials, said Ana Lucia Gudiel, the ministry's spokeswoman.

The U.S. government has been pressuring Guatemala to continue to allow deportation flights, and has similarly pressed the governments of Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has used deportation planes to bring hundreds of Americans stranded in Latin America back to the U.S.

The Trump administration is facing pressure from U.S. lawmakers and advocates to release immigrants from civil detention centers, and courts have ordered the release of some people with underlying medical conditions.

Guatemalan officials say the flow of migrants to the U.S. has slowed, and many migrants want to return home as coronavirus cases spread in the U.S.

"We are involved in telling the migrant population that they should not listen to human smugglers who offer to take them to the U.S. because the U.S. is in lockdown," said Mr. Samayoa.

The coronavirus pandemic threatens some Trump administration actions regarding migrants. An asylum agreement with Guatemala to receive asylum seekers from third countries has been temporarily suspended, Guatemala's government said two weeks ago. Similar deals with El Salvador and Honduras haven't yet been implemented and experts say they will likely be postponed because of the pandemic.

Guatemala, Central America's most populous country with 17 million people, closed its borders to all foreigners except diplomatic personnel on March 17. It has reported 38 positive cases of coronavirus and one death.

Honduras and tiny El Salvador, which along with Guatemala form part of the so-called Northern Triangle, reported 141 and 32 positive cases, with nine deaths in Honduras and none in El Salvador so far, government data show.

El Salvador closed its international airport in the capital for commercial flights, but deportation flights from the U.S. have kept coming, an immigration official said. In Honduras, which has closed its border, flights of deported Hondurans have continued, said an activist who works on receiving deportees.

On Tuesday night, the Department of Homeland Security notified Congress that more than 500 additional military troops were heading to the border with Mexico to provide "enhanced detection and monitoring" for the coronavirus.

The number of Guatemalans deported from the U.S. has plummeted in recent days due to increased health controls in the U.S. and Guatemala, said Mr. Samayoa.

Guatemala has put in place a 4 p.m. to 4 a.m. curfew, which includes most transportation, and effectively limits the time during the day that deportee flights can land.

Document J000000020200401eg410003v





U.S. News: Fed Acts to Reduce Currency Strains

By Nick Timiraos 
375 words
1 April 2020
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
Copyright 2020 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve said Tuesday that it would launch a temporary lending facility that for the first time would allow foreign central banks to convert their holdings of Treasury securities into dollars, its latest bid to alleviate strains in global markets.

The program is designed to alleviate stresses in currency markets that had prompted more foreign central banks to sell their holdings of Treasurys. The Fed has been aggressively purchasing Treasury and mortgage securities to reduce market strains, and the latest move could reduce the supply of those securities hitting the market if foreign central banks can more easily exchange them for dollars.

The program could allow about 170 foreign central banks and other international monetary authorities that maintain accounts at the New York Fed and aren't subject to U.S. sanctions to enter a lending arrangement called a repurchase agreement, or repo, in which borrowers temporarily exchange their Treasury securities for dollars.

"This facility should help support the smooth functioning of the U.S. Treasury market by providing an alternative temporary source U.S. dollars other than sales of securities in the open market," the Fed said.

The repo facility for foreign central banks will be available beginning April 6 for at least six months.

The latest dollar-lending programs will complement separate tools the Fed has launched to lend dollars to 14 other central banks in Europe, Canada, Mexico, Japan, Brazil and Australia to ensure markets don't run short of currency outside of the U.S.

Many business transactions abroad take place in dollars and foreign institutions also lend in the currency. The Fed used these "swap" lines aggressively in 2008 and 2009 during the financial crisis.

But the latest lending program goes beyond what the Fed employed during the financial crisis or the 2011-12 eurozone crisis by making available dollar funding to a far broader cohort of emerging-market reserve banks. It underscores the growing primacy of the dollar in global finance and the demands that has placed on the Fed to serve as a central bank to the world.

The new lending facility is likely to reach a much broader set of foreign central banks.

Document J000000020200401eg410003q

Search Summary

 Text||  
 Date|03/01/2020 to 04/01/2020|  
 Source|The Wall Street Journal|  
 Author|All Authors|  
 Company|All Companies|  
 Subject|Government Finance Or Economic Performance/Indicators Or Monetary Policy Or Disasters/Accidents Or Crime/Legal Action Or Global/World Issues Or High Net Worth Individuals|  
 Industry|All Industries|  
 Region|All Regions|  
 Language|English|  
 Results Found|332|  
 Timestamp|20 June 2025 6:46|  

